https://catalog.archives.gov/id/7460447/5/public?contributionType=transcription


88
	Croy, Kenneth H
	7460447
	Hannah Finkel
	Ruby investigation
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



Page 1
CROY, KENNETH H.


Page 2
Date: December 5, 1963


KENNETH HUDSON CROY, residence 2634 West Illinois, was interviewed at his place of business, H.E. Roy and Son Real Estate, 1720 South Lamer. He was advised he need not make any statement, that any statement he did make could be used against him in a court of law. He was advised of his right to an attorney. He furnished the following information:
He is a Sergeant in the Dallas, Texas Police Reserve and has been for a good number go years. 
On November 23, 1963, at approximately 11:00 P.M., Lieutenant BEN McCOY, Dallas Police Department, telephonically advised he would need six or seven reserve policemen to report to the third floor of the Police Department at 9:00 A.M. on November 24, 1963.
He arrived at about 8:30 A.M., November 24, 1963, at the Police Department and went to the Assembly Room to make detail. Lieutenant BARNEY MERRELL gave him the duty of assigning men out of the Assembly Room as required by the other police officials. He thereafter sent groups of men downstairs when called for by the police dispatcher. At one point, a sergeant, name unknown, came in and secured five men to help search the building. 
At about 10:00 A.M., he went to the basement parking area on his own volition to aid in the basement security. He thereafter located men when more were called for by the various police officers present. 
Captain ARNETT, around 11:00 A.M., requested some policemen to form on the Main Street side of the center ramp area to aid in keeping members of the press back from the area where LEE HARVEY OSWALD was to be passed through. 
He recalls shortly before the shooting, a few minutes at most, a blue Dallas police car drove out of the basement up the Main Street ramp past his location. He did not see anyone coming down the Main Street ramp. He recalls there was one regular police man, name unknown, stationed at the Main Street ramp entrance 
on [[underlined]] 12/4/63 at [[underlined]] Dallas, Texas File # [[underlined]] DL 44-1639 by Special Agents [[underlined]] JOHN E. DALLMAN & R. NEIL QUIGLEY/JN Date dictated [[underlined]] 12/5/63
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency. 




Page 3
2
DL 44-1639


Just Prior to OSWALD’s appearance, an unknown office in plain clothes came out of the jail office and told the press to move back. CROY then turned to his left and requested a man with a large movie camera, who was on his immediate left and another man on his left rear, who was dressed in a dark hat and dark maroons brown sport coat with black thread woven into it, to step back. CROY then looked back toward the jail office at the crowd and then glanced back to see if the two men on his left had complied with his order. He saw the man with the movie camera and stepped back to the ramp railing and was standing upon the railing; the other man he did not see. He then looked back at the crowd by the jail office for OSWALD was being brought down. At approximately 15 or 20 seconds later, OSWALD was brought out, the member of the press surged forward and one placed a microphone in front of OSWALD’s face and asked him to make a statement. At this instant, CROY got a blurred movement to his left and turned and made an off balance grab at a man who was moving in a low crouch with his hands tucked into his stomach much like a football fullback. CROY’s hand brushed the tail coat of the man and at this time had the impression the man was the same one who moments before, had been standing to his left and rear. 
He then heard a shot and started forward to assist in bringing the man under control but saw he was already being wrestled to the floor by a number of officers. 
He did not hear any statements made by anyone while the man was moving forward and the shooting taking place. He did not know the was JACK RUBY until after RUBY was removed upstairs to the jail. 
He met JACK RUBY about three years ago when riding with a patrolman, name unrecalled, which is required at least once a month to retain membership in the police reserve. On that occasion, they drove by the club Vegas at approximately 2:45 A.M and drove into the Lucas B & B just up the street from the Vegas. A man later identified to him as JACK RUBY, came hurrying and told CROY and the patrolman to put down the menu as he, RUBY, would order for them. RUBY ordered steaks and paid for them.
CROY recalls the incident since it was rather humorous in that RUBY was attempting to keep them away from the front of his Vegas Club while it closed at 3:00 A.M. and the patrons left. When in reality, he heard the other patrol cars were sitting in front of the Vegas Club “loading up”. 


Page 4
3
DL 44-1639
He estimates total number of people present in the basement at around 100 and could not state the number of press people in the group. He did not see anyone he believes was, other than police officers or members of the press. 
He has no information or knowledge of OSWALD or RUBY whatsoever other than furnished above.
He recalls the following reserve police officers as being in the basement at the time of the shooting: 
Captain C. O. ARNETT;
LIEUTENANT HARRY KRISS;
LIEUTENANT BEN McCOY;
LIEUTENANT DON SUITS.


Page 5


DL 44-1639/eah
“November 26, 1963
“Mr. J. E. Curry
“Chief of Police 
“Sir:
“This is a statement of facts relating to any activity as a reserve Officer Sunday, November 24, 1963, to the best of my knowledge and recollection.
1. Approximate time I reported to duty. 8:35 A.M.
2. I reported to Lt. Merrell (Assembly Room)
3. I was assigned to the basement and Jail Office entrance and my assignment was that of a guard.
4. Names of other officers in the same area that I can recollect are:
        Res. Capt. C..O. Arnett, Res. Lt. B.C. McCoy, 
        Res. Lt. D.S Suits, Res. Lt. H. M. Kriss, 
                Res. Officer Gano Worley
5. Did you know Ruby? Yes and No (see next statement)
6. When and under what circumstance did you see Ruby? 
        Approximately three years ago, Jack Ruby brought myself and two other officers breakfast at Lucas B&B Cafe on Oak Lawn at 3:00 A.M. I have not seen this man since, however I have been in his club on several occasions when riding observation.
“Signed Kenneth Hudson Croy, 
Kenneth Hudson Croy, Reserve Sergeant” 
CR85


Page 6


March 18, 1964 


Honorable J. E. Curry 
Chief of Police 
Dallas Police Department 
Dallas, Texas 


Dear Chief Curry, 


        This letter will be handed to you by my Executive Assistant, Mr. Howard P. Willson, who will speak you you in detail about the matter I write about below. 


        Mr. Logan D. ubert, Jr and Mr. Durt F Griffin, both _____ of the advisory chief of the commission have been ____ by the 






PAGE 8


[[Underlined]] Dallas Police department 


Chief J.E. Curry 
Capt. G.F. Frugler 
Capt. O. A. Jonas 
Lt. Jack Devill
Detective D. E. Archer 
Detective B.S. Clardy 
Detective H. T. Harpoon 
Detective T. D. McMillan 
Sgt. P. T. Dead 
Sgt. B. J. Marcey 
Supervisor J. A. Putnam 
Capt. G.E. Talbort 
Sherriff J. E. Deczer 
Patrolman Alvin R. Brok 
Reserve Officer G. E. Harley 
Reserve Officer W. J. Norman
Reserve Officer Kenneth H. Croy 
Lt. Ben McCoy
Lt. Barney Marrel 
Dept. Chief M. V. Stevenson
Lt. V. S. Steurt 
Detective Richard L. Clark 
George F. Chabert, Machanic 
Capt. J, V. Fritz 
Detective Vernon C. Cornbell 
Patrolman T. R. Burton 


PAGE 9 
[[handwritten]] K P Croy, Kenneth H INV 5
[[Stamp]] MAR 20 1964
MEMORANDUM 
TO: Mr. Leon D. Hubert Jr.
Mr. Burt W. Griffin 


FROM: J. Lee Ronkin
General Counsel 


        Acting under the authority of paragraph I.D and II.A. of the Resolution of the President’s Commission on the Assassination of  President Kennedy, relative  to questioning of witnesses by members of the commission’s Staff, I hereby designate the following persons from whom you make take sworn depositions or sworn affidavits: 


Frederick A. Belbordorf
John J. Donald 
___ Ehyvans 
Theodore Jackson 
Doyle Lone 
Louie  Mekinsie 
Elnore Pitts 
Det. D. H. Arehaz
Re. Officer C. O. Arnett 
Asst. Chief Charles Butchelo
Dbt. B. L. Beuttey
Dbt. R. H. Brook
Ptn. T. R. Durton 
Det. Billy H Combert
Mechanic Geo. T. Chobot 
Det. B. S. Clardy
Lt. F. I. Cornall 
Res. Officer Kenneth H. Croy 
Chief J. E. Curry
Det. W. J. Curtshaw
Huey Rooves 
W. W. Saningon 
J. K Strong 
Junes Turner 
General Manager funeral Home, O’Neal or proper representative 
Sgt P. T. Dean
Sheriff J. E. Decker 
Lt. A . M. Eberhards 
Dept. Chief Fisher 
Cpt. W. F. Fraiser 
Capt. J. W. Frits
Det. L. C. Graves 
Aux. Pol. O. W. Harrison 
Pen. W. J. Harrison 
Det. W. T. Harrison 
Ptn. Warren Z Hibbs.
Res. Officer. H. B. Holly 
Cpt. O. A. Jones 
Res. Officer H. N. Krice 
Det. J. R. Louvelle 
Det. R. L.  Lottery 




PAGE 10


Dep Chief g. L. Lampkin 
Cpt. F. M. Mortin 
Sgt. B. J. Moxey 
Rec. Officer L. W. Mayo 
Lt. Barney Merrel 
Det. L. D. Miller 
Det. L. D. Montgomery 
Lt. Ben McCoy
Det. Leo Nelson 
Det. F. D. McMillan 
Re. Officer W. J Newman 
Lt. R. S. Pierce 
Sgt. J. A. Putnman
Lt. Jack Novill
Ptn. Willie B. Slack 
Lt. V. S. Smart
Sgt D. F. Steele 
Dep. Chief W. W. Stevenson 
Cpt. C. E. Talbert t
Dep. J. C. Watson 
Lt. Woodrow Wiggins 
Res Officer G. E. Worley 
Radio Dispatchers on Duty, Dallas Police Department 
Between 10 A.A. and 4 P.M., November 24, 1963. 


Ptn. Thomas Gregory
Cpt. Soomon 
Charolett Howell 
Ftn. Leanad E. Jes
Gso M. Kemp
Ptn. Carroll C. Lewis
Dep. Chief R. H. Lankimy
Ptn. Duane J. McGrath
Lt. Robert F. McKinney
Ptn. Ronald C. Nelson 
Det. James K. Ramesey
Ptn. Bobby Gene Patterson 
Clerk, Johnie F Newton 
Det. H. Beron Raynolds 


[[Line]]


Hubert/jv/3-20-64
Cc: Hubert chron file 
Mr. Ronkin 
Mr. Willens


[[signed]]




PAGE 11 
[[Handwritten]] KP Croy, K. H. INV5 


March 26, 1964
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. J LEE RANKIN, General Counsel
FROM: Howard P. Wellens


RE: Daily Report From Dallas
[[underlined]] Thursday, March 26, 1964


Mr. Rubert called this evening and stated that depositions were taken last evening from Reserve Officer C. O. Arnett, Detective D. H. Archer, Sgt. B. J. Maxey, and Reserve officer W. J. Newman. The Newman deposition went on until half past one last night and again this afternoon (Thursday) from 4 to 4:45 p.m.
During the day the following depositions were taken by the designated members of the staff:


[[Underline]] witness  [[underline]] Staff Member
Det. B. H. Conbest….Hubert &Griffin
Det. B. L. Beaty...Hubert &Griffin
Det. J. C. Watson...Hubert &Griffin
Det. W. J. Cutshaw...Hubert &Griffin
Capt. Solomon ...Hubert &Griffin
Res. Officer W. J. Newman...Hubert &Griffin
Mr. and Mrs. Igor Vladimere Voshinin Mr. Jenner


Mr. Hubert proposes for tonight the deposition of six reserve officers- H. D. Holly, H. M. Kriggs, R. L. Mayo, G. E. Worley, K. H. Croy and A. R. Brock. For tomorrow, Friday, March 27th, plans call for depositions of Ruby Reves and Police Department radio dispatchers Francis Cason and J. Jackson Murray. 
Mr. Hubert also informed me that he has recieved information from Dean Storey to the effect that the reporter in the Ruby Trial has not yet begun preparing the transcript. Apparently, Ruby has filled a pouper’s oath and the reporter is uncertain as to whether he will compensated for his work.  The State of Texas will pay in the event that Ruby’s pauper’s oath is rejected. Dean Storey.


PAGE 12 


2
Will be here Monday, March 30, on his way to Europe for 4 weeks. I think we should try to persuade the Teams officials to instruct the reported to begin work as soon as possible. 
I asked Mr. Hubert to as Mr. Griffin to prepare a memorandum regarding his deposition of Detective Dean. Mr. Griffin is in Fort Worth and will be back in Washington on Saturday. United States Attorney Sanders talked with District Attorney wade and feels that this difficulty has been smoothed over. The United States Attorney with Wade that, if the conduct took place, it was unacceptable to the commission. 
I informed United States Attorney Sanders regarding the agreement reached today between you and Attorney General Carr as to the availability of the transcript in Dallas. Mr. Sanders informed me that he was prepared to keep one copy of all the deposition transcripts in his office and permit Carr’s representative to read them there. According to Mr. Sanders, Mr. Spector has already left Dallas with two copies of the transcript of a few depositions, so that arrangements will have to be made to return one of them to Mr. Sanders. 




PAGE 13


[[handwritten]] Croy, Kenneth H INV 5


JL:R:HPW:al
3/25/64
[[stamp]] MAR 26 1964


Mr. Walter E. Craig
President, American Bar Association 
2121 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20036
Dear Mr. Craig, 
As I mentioned to you during our meeting last monday, members of the Commission staff are currently in Dallas taking the depositions of various witnesses. I wish to confirm my investigation to you or your representative to participate during the taking of these depositions in the manner in which you are currently taking part in the presentation of evidence before the commission. 


So that you are fully informed regarding the names of the witnesses currently being deposed, I am attaching to this letter a list of witnesses whose depositions have been authorized. The first column sets forth the witnesses to be deposed this week by Mr. Spector, primarily doctors and other personnel of Parkland Hospital. The second column  sets forth the names of witnesses to be handled by myers. Hubert and Griffin of the Commission staff, including officials of the Dallas Police Department and the Sheriff's office at Dallas, who will be interrogated regarding the handling of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. The third column lists the witnesses to be handled by Mesars. Jenner and Hebler and persons of the Dallas Community familiar with certain of Oswald’s activities in the months preceding the assassination. These members of the staff are under instructions to take these depositions expeditiously as can be arranged. 


I anticipate that the procedure of taking depositions in Dallas will last through approximately Friday, April 30th. Next week Mr. Hubery will remain in Dallas to interrogate witnesses. 


cc:Mr. Renkin 
Mr. Willen