John Connally: https://catalog.archives.gov/id/7460428


Text of Transcription:


Page 1 (Image 2)


FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59) 
Federal Bureau of Investigation
November 30, 1963


Doctor Charles Francis Gregory, Parkland Hospital, stated he and Doctor Tom Shires and other staff physicians performed surgery on Governor John Connally on November 22nd, 1963. He stated surgery performed by him was done on the Governor's right arm, and that he removed from the arm a small fragment of metal. He stated the metal fragment was placed into a transparent container for preservation, and that during operation, he recalled no other pieces or bits of metal being removed from the Governor's body.


Doctor GREGORY was asked whether or not he removed or saw another doctor remove a small fragment of metal from the left thigh of Governor CONNALLY, and he stated that although X-rays indicated the possibility of a small fragment of metal imbedded in the left thigh that no surgery was performed to remove same. 


Doctor GREGORY stated Surgery Supervisor AUDREY BELL took custody of the fragment of metal removed from the Governor's arm, and that the ultimate disposition of the metal which was considered to be of possible evidentiary value, could best be explained by Miss BELL. He stated he did not on his own knowledge know, however, but he had been advised Miss BELL obtained a receipt from State Trooper Bob Nolan and transferred the metal fragment to him in accordance with instructions from the Governor's office at Parkland Hospital. 


Page 2 (Image 3)
FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59) 
Federal Bureau of Investigation
November 30, 1963


Doctor Charles Francis Gregory, Parkland Hospital, stated he and Doctor Tom Shires and other staff physicians performed surgery on Governor John Connally on November 22nd, 1963. He stated surgery performed by him was done on the Governor's right arm, and that he removed from the arm a small fragment of metal. He stated the metal fragment was placed into a transparent container for preservation, and that during operation, he recalled no other pieces or bits of metal being removed from the Governor's body.


Doctor GREGORY was asked whether or not he removed or saw another doctor remove a small fragment of metal from the left thigh of Governor CONNALLY, and he stated that although X-rays indicated the possibility of a small fragment of metal imbedded in the left thigh that no surgery was performed to remove same. 


Doctor GREGORY stated Surgery Supervisor AUDREY BELL took custody of the fragment of metal removed from the Governor's arm, and that the ultimate disposition of the metal which was considered to be of possible evidentiary value, could best be explained by Miss BELL. He stated he did not on his own knowledge know, however, but he had been advised Miss BELL obtained a receipt from State Trooper Bob Nolan and transferred the metal fragment to him in accordance with instructions from the Governor's office at Parkland Hospital. 


Page 3 (Image 4):
FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59) 
Federal Bureau of Investigation
November 30, 1963
Bobby M. Nolan, State Highway Patrolman, Tyler District, was interviewed relative to a bullet fragment removed from the left thigh of Governor CONNALLY, which was turned over to him at the Parkland Hospital in Dallas for delivery to the FBI.


NOLAN stated his instructions were apparently not clear at the outset and that following contact with his superior officers while at the Dallas Police Department, he turned the bullet fragment over to Capital WILL FRITZ at approximately 7:50 P.M.. He stated he had no further information concerning the matter and that his only participant in this series of events was the acceptance of the fragment and delivery of same to Capital FRITZ. 


Page 4 (Image 5):
FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59) 
Federal Bureau of Investigation
November 30, 1963
WILLIAM O. (BILL) STINSON, Administrative Assistant to the Governor of Texas, Second Floor, Parkland Hospital in Dallas, stated that during surgery performed on the Governor on November 22, 1963, in connection with the shooting of the Governor on November 22, 1963, in Dallas, that a fragment of the spent bullet which penetrated the Governor's left shoulder from the read had been removed by DR. TOM SHIRES and/or DR. ROBERT R. SHAW who performed the surgery. He stated the fragment of lead was retained and placed in a receptacle of his instructions and turned over to his office and ultimately to Texas Highway Patrolman Nolan for delivery to the FBI.


STINSON stated the Governor was shot below the right shoulder bleed with the bullet coming out at the fifth rib. He stated the lower portion of the right side was shattered and that as the bullet penetrated this area it proceeded through the right arm, breaking the radius and a piece of the spent bullet came to rest in the Governor's left thigh. 


STINSON stated that although the Governor had been in very critical condition, at that moment was much improved and that it was anticipated he would recover satisfactorily. 


STINSON stated MRS. CONNALLY was, of course, an eyewitness to the shooting of the Governor insofar as occupancy of the President and Governor's car was concerned that MRS. CONNALLY would be available for interview by the FBI on November 23, 1963, if requested. 




Page 5 (Image 6):
SA 89-43
The following investigation was  conducted by SA J. DOYLE WILLIAMS on November 23, 1963:
AT DALLAS, TEXAS


It will be noted that information contained in the interview with WILLIAM O. STINSON on November 22, 1963, based upon information furnished by him, reflected the metal fragment in question removed from the Governor's body was lodged in the Governor's left thigh. 
In interviews with Doctor CHARLES FRANCIS GREGORY and Surgery Supervisor AUDREY BELL, a determination was made that the metal fragment in question was actually removed from the Governor's right arm and that no surgery was performed in connection with the wound in his left thigh. 


Page 6 (Image 7):
FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59) 
Federal Bureau of Investigation
November 30, 1963
The following copy of an X-ray negative was received from Mr. JACK REYNOLDS, Administrator, Parkland Hospital, on November 29, 1963, which reflected an x-ray on the left thigh of Governor John CONNALLY, which was taken on November 22, 1963.


Dr. JACK REYNOLDS furnished the following letter which accompanied this x-ray negative which is set out as follows:
"SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT DESCRIBING IN DETAIL THE APPEARANCE AND LOCATION OF A SMALL METALLIC DENSITY SUPERIMPOSED ON THE SOFT TISSUE SHADOWS OF THE MEDIAL ASPECT OF THE LEFT THIGH OF GOVERNOR JOHN CONNALLY ON FILMS DATED November 22, 1963.


"AP and lateral films of the distal portion of the left thigh was obtained and include the distal portion of the shaft and the region of the knee. One film is in the AP projection and the other the lateral projection with the direction of the beam from medial to lateral and the film lying adjacent to the lateral aspect of the thigh. 


"No fractures are seen. A few punctate and linear densities are seen on the film but these are inconsistent, and appear on one and not the other and therefore are interpreted as artifacts.


"There is, however, one density which remains constant on both films and appears to lie beneath the skin in the region of the subcutaneous fat in the medial aspect of the thigh. By measurement on these films, without correction for target film distance and object film distance, this small density lies 15.2 cms. above the distal end of the medial femoral condyle on the AP film and, on the film, lies 8mms beneath the external surface on the skin. It is 6.25 cms medial to the femoral shaft. On the lateral film, the center of this small metallic density lies 15 cms above the distal end of the medial femoral condyle. It lies 4.9 cms posterior to the skin of the anterior surface of the thigh and it is superimposed on the shaft of the femur. In relation to the femur, the density is superimposed on a point 1.5 cms posterior to the exterior of the anterior cortex. 


Page 7 (Image 8):
DL 89-43




"The shape of this density is irregular but is roughly oval. Precise measurements are difficult but it is estimated that the greatest length in the AP projection is about 3.5 mms and the greatest width about 1.3 mms.


"Measurements of the density in the lateral projection reveal the greatest length to be about 2 mms. and the greatest width to be about 1.5 mms. The long axis of the metallic object is oriented generally along the axis of the femur."


This copy of an X-ray negative was delivered to the FBI Laboratory on November 30, 1963.


Page 8: (Image 9)


Mr. Connally was present in the Presidential Motorcade, enroute from downtown Dallas to the Trade Mart of Stemmons Expressway. Mr. Connally was shot by an assailant in the near vicinity of the intersection of Elm & Houstons Streets. Mr. Connally sustained a gunshot wound with the point of entry located in the posterior of the right shoulder, ranging downward thru the chest, exiting the right chest just below right nipple. The bullet continued, striking the right wrist, palm side exiting 2 inches from the wrist joint. A fragment continued, entered the interior portion of the left thigh causing a flesh wound. Dr. Robert Shaw, chief of the Thoracic Surgery, Parkland Hospital, states that Mr. Connally's condition is favorable for recovery. 


Page 9 (Image 10):


DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION


While still under general anesthesia and following a thoracotomy and repair of the chest injury by Dr. Robert Shaw, the right upper extremity was thoroughly prepped in the routine fashion after shaving. He was draped in the routine fashion using stockinette, the only addition was the use of a debridement pan. The wound of entry on the dorsal aspect of the right wrist over the junction of the distal fourth of the radius and share was approximately two cm in length and rather oblique with the loss of tissue with some considerable contusion at the margins of it. There was a wound of exit along the volar surface of the wrist about two cm above the flexion crease of the wrist and in the midline. The wound of entrance was carefully excised and developed through the muscles and tendons from the radial side of that bone itself where the fracture was encountered. It was noted that the tendon of the abductor palmaris brevis was transected, only two small fragments of bone was removed, one approximately one cm in length and consisted of lateral cortex which lay free in the wound and had no soft tissue connections, another much smaller fragment perhaps 3mm in length was subsequently removed. Small bits of metal were encountered at various levels throughout the wound and these were wherever they were identified and could be picked up were picked up and have been submitted to the Pathology department for identification and examination. Throughout the wound it was not and especially in the superficial laters and to some extent in the tendon and tendon sheaths on the radial side of the cm small fine bits of cloth consistent with fine bits of Mohair. It is our understanding that the patient was wearing a Mohair suit at the time of the injury, and this accounts for the deposition of such organic material within the wound. After as careful and complete debridement as could be carried out and with an apparent integrity of the floor tendons and the median nerve in the solar side, and after through irrigation the wound of exit on the solar surface of the wrist was closed primarily with wire sutures  while the wound of entrance on the radial side of the forearm was only partially closed, left open for the purpose of drainage should any make spontaneous appearance.” 


Page 10 (Image 11):


DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION (CONTINUED)


This is inderens to the presence of Mohair and organic material deep into the wound which is prone to produce tissue resolutions and to encourage infection and this precaution of not closing the wound was taken in correspondence with our experience in that regard. 


In view of the urgency of the Governor’s original chest injury it was impossible to definitely ascertain the status of the circulation into the nerve supply to the hand and wrist on the right side. Accordingly, it was determined as best we could at the time of operation and the radial artery was found to be intact and pulsating normally. The integrity of the medial nerve and the ulnar nerve is not clearly established but it is presumed to be present. Following closure of the volar wound and partial closure of the radial wound, dry sterile dressings were applied and a long arm cast was then applied with skin tape traction, rubber band variety, attached to the thumb and index finger of the right hand. An attitude of flexion was created at the right elbow,  and post operative diagnosis for the right forearm remains the same and again I suggest that you incorporate this particular dictation together with other dictations which will be given to you by the surgeons concerned with this patient. 


Page 11 (Image 12)


The patient was brought to the OR from the EOR. in the EOR a sucking wound of the right chest was partially controlled by an occlusive dressing supported by manual pressure.  A tube had been placed through the second intersperse in the mid-clavicular line connected to a waterfall bottle to evacuate the right pneumothorax and hemothorax. An IV infusion of the RL solution had already been started. As soon as the patient was positioned on the OR table the anesthesia was induced by Dr. Giesecke and an endotracheal tube was in place, as soon as it was possible to control respiration with positive pressure the occlusive dressing was taken from the right chest and the extent of the wound more carefully determined. It was found that the wound or entrance was just lateral to the right scapula close with the axilla yet had passed through the latissimus dorsi muscle shattered approximately 6 cm of the lateral and anterior portion of the right fifth rib and emerged below the right nipple. The wound of entrance was approximately three cm in its longest diameter and the wound of exit was a ragged wound approximately five cm in its greatest diameter. The skin and subcutaneous tissue over the path of the missile moved in a paradoxical manager with respiration indicating softening of the chest. The skin of the whole area was carefully cleaned with Phisohex and Iodine. The entire area including the wound of entrance and wound of exit was draped partially excluding the wound of entrance for the first part of the operation. An elliptical incision was made around the wound of exit removing the torn edges of the skin and the damaged subcutaneous tissue. The incision was then carried in a downward curve up towards the right axilla so as to not have the skin incision over the actual path of the missile ben through the chest wall. The incision was anterior border of the latissimus dorsi muscle. The fragmented and damaged portions of the Serratus anterior muscle were excised. Small rib fragments that were adhering to the peri-intercostal muscle bundle and fifth intercostal muscle bundles were not appreciably damaged. 


Page 12 (Image 13)


The ragged ends of the damaged fifth rib were cleaned out with the rongeur. The plura had been torn open by the secondary missiles created by the fragmented fifth fib. The wound was open widely and exposure was obtained with a self retaining retractor. The right plural cavity was then carefully inspected approximately 200 cc of clot and liquid blood was removed from the pleural cavity. The middle lobe had a linear rent starting at its peripheral edge going down towards it hilum separating the lobe into two segments. There was an open bronchus in the depth of this wound. Since the vascularity and the bronchial connections to the love were intact it was decided to repair the lobe rather than to remove it. The repair was accomplished with a running suture of 1000 cubicle gut on atraumatic needle closing both pleural surfaces as well as two running sutures approximating the rise of the central portion of the lobe. This almost completely sealed off the air leaks which were evident in the torn portion of the love. The lower lobe was next seminude and found to be engorged with blood and at one point a laceration exit allowed the oozing of blood. This laceration had undoubtedly been caused by a rib fragment. This laceration was closed with a single suture of $3-0 chromic gut on atraumatic needle. The right plura cavity was now carefully examined and small ribs fragments were removed, the diaphragm was found to be uninjured. There was no evidence of injury on the mediastinum and its contents. Hemostats had been accomplished within the plural cavity with the repair of the middle lobe and the suturing of the laceration in the lower lobe. The upper lobe was found to be uninjured. The drains which had previously been placed in the second interspace in the midclavicular line was found to be longer than necessary so approximately ten cm of it was cut away and the remaining portion  was demonstrated with two additional openings. An additional drain was placed through a stab wound in the eighth interspace in the posterior axillary line. Both these drains were then connected to a waterseal bottle. The fourth and fifth intercostal muscles were then approximated with interrupted sutures of 40 chronic gut. The remaining portion of the Serratus anterior muscle was then approximated across the closure of the intercostal muscle. The laceration of the latissimus dorsi muscle on its intermost surface was then close with several interrupted sutures of 40 chronic gut. Before closing the subcutaneous tissue one million units of penicillin and one gram of Streptomycin in 100 cc normal saline was installed into the wound. The stab wound was made in the most dependent portion of the wound coming out to  allow drainage of the wound of the chest wall. The subcutaneous tissue was then closed with interrupted 40 chronic gut inverting the knots. Skin closed with interrupted virtual sutures of black silk. Attention was next turned to the wound of entrance. It was excited with an elliptical incision. It was found that the latissimus dorsi muscle although lacerated was not badly damaged so that the opening was closed with sutures of #0 chronic gut in the fascia the muscle. Before closing this incision the palpation with the index finger the Penrose drain could be felt immediately below in the space beneath the latissimus dorsi muscle. The skin closed with interrupted vertical mattress sutures of black silk. Drainage tubes were secured with safety pens and adhesive tape and dressing applied. As soon as the operation on the chest had been concluded Dr. Gregory and Dr. Shires started the surgery was necessary for the wounds of the right wrist and left thigh.
Dr. Robert Shaw
*There was also a comminuted fracture of the right radius secondary to the same ,issle and in addition a small flesh wound on the left thigh. The operative notes concerning the management of the right arm and left thigh will be dictated by Dr. Charles and Dr. Tom Shires. 


Page 13 (Image 14)


ParkLand Memorial Hospital Operative Record
Name: Connally, John
Unit #: 263699 A #24842
Preoperative Diagnosis: Gunshot Wound, Right Chest, Right Wrist, Left Thigh
Post-Operative Diagnosis: Same
Operation: Exploration and Debridement of Gunshot Wound of Left Thigh Began: 16:00 Ended: 16:20
Anesthetic: General Began: 13:00 Anesthesiologist: Geisecke
Surgeon: Dr. Shires
Assistants: Drs. McClelland, Baxter, and Patman
Sponge Counts: 1st- Correct, PS
Scrub Nurse: Oliver Circ Nurse: Daming and Schroder
Drugs: I.V. Fluids and Blood
Complications: *This portion of the operation is involved only with the operation on the left thigh. The chest injury has been dictated by Dr. Shaw, the orthopedic injury to the arm by Dr. Gregory.
Condition of Patient:


Clinical Evaluation: There was a 1 cm. punctate missile wound over the juncture of the middle and lower third, medial aspect, of the left thigh. X-rays of the thigh and leg revealed a bullet fragment which was imbedded in the body of the femur in the distal third. The leg was prepared with Phisohex and I.O. Prep and was draped in the usual fashion.
Operative Findings: Following this the missile wound was seen to course through tract was explored. The missile wound was seen to course through the subcutaneous fat and into the vastus medialis. The narcotic fat and muscle was derided down to the region of the femur. The direction of of the missile wound was judged not to be in the course of the femoral vessel, since the wound was distal and anterior to Hunter’s canal.
Description of Operation: Following complete debridement of the wound and irrigation with saline, the wound was felt to be adequately derided enough so that three simple through-and- through, stainless steel Alba #28 wire sutures were used encompassing skin, subcutaneous tissue, and muscle fascia on both sides. Following this a sterile dressing was applied. The dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses in both legs were quite good. The Thoracic procedure had been completed at this time, the debridement of the compound fracture in the arm was still in progress at the time this soft tissue repair was completed. 
CR87:
Tom Shires, MD


Page 14 (Image 15)


To: Mr. C.J. Price, Adminstrator
Parkland Memorial Hospital
From: A.H. Giosecko,Jr., M.D.
Associate Anesthesiologist 
Department of Anesthesiology


Subject: Narrative Summary - anesthesia care for Governor John Connally


Upon notification by Dr. M.T. Jenkins that the President had been shot, I grabbed my equipment and proceeded to the Emergency Room via the elevator. Dr. Jenkins had taken the stairs. Dr. jackie Hunt brought an anesthesia machine. Dr. Gene Akin was also along. Dre. Hunt, Akin, and myself assisted Dr. Jenkins in establishing ventilation in the President, then Dr. Hunt proceeded across the hall to check on Governor Connally’s requirements while I hooked an oscilloscope to the President with the assistance of Dr. Don Curtis, an Oral Surgery resident. Having been summoned by Dr. Hunt to attend to Governor Connally, I left the room just as Doctors Bashour, Soldin, and Clark arrived.


I rushed to operating room No. 5 in the Main Operating Suite on the second floor, where Governor Connally had been taken. On the way, Dr. Hunt briefed me that she had examined the Governor and found his color to be ashen, pulse of normal rate, and volume, but he was despond and tachypneic, grunting as he exhaled. She recalled having passed a cufflink to Mrs. Connally while the Governor was having a chest tube placed.


Upon arrival in operating room No. 5 Joe Mata, our orderly, brought me an anesthesia machine, which I hurriedly checked for safe operation. I then introduced myself to the Governor, determined that he had not  eaten since early morning, and not had any serious medical illnesses and had not been in shock. At this time he had 150 ml. of blood above the tape in the chest bottle, his color was as described, his nail beds were cyanotic, his pulse was 100 and full, he was alert and unpremedicated. I checked his mouth for foreign bodies and started 10 litres per minute oxygen by mask from the anesthesia machine. At this time he was having a cutdown performed in his right ankle. 




Page 15 (Image 16):


Mr. C.J. Price, Adminstator
Parkland Memorial Hospital
November 25, 1963
Page 2- Narrative summary anesthesia care for Governor John Connally


and his trunk shaved from the clavicles down, including the right axilla. A Foley catheter was being placed in his bladder and 200 cc. urine was recorded. 
Because of his poor color, respiratory distress, and probable large blood loss, I decided to omit pentothal and to use cyclopropane and oxygen. Accordingly, I asked for quiet and for the Governor to be covered with a clean cotton blanket. At 1300, twenty minutes after arrival in the Emergency Room, I started slowly with 800 cc. cyclopropane per minute plus 2 litres of oxygen per minute. His color had improved but his respirations were still rapid at 40 with grunting exhalations. The Governor lost consciousness without excitement at 1307 and was given 60 mg sucolnylcholine chloride very slowly intravenously to prevent hard fasciculalations and passive regurgitation. Laryngoscope was atraumatic and easy and no abnormalities were noted. The pharyus and tracheas was sprayed with 47% cocnine and incubated with 34 Fr. endotracheal tube with a Knight-Grimm-Sanders cuff which was inflated to provide a good fit.
During the induction Drs. Hunt and Douon Baker connected the leads to the ECG monitor. Dr. Hunt reported a very transient bradycardia during the intubation. The pulse rapidly returned to 100 and the EKG looked normal. A blood pressure cuff and stethoscope was applied to the left arm and blood pressure was noted at 100/70.  The explosion-proof X-ray machine was moved in and X-rays taken of the chest, right, and left thigh, and leg/ Blood was drawn for type and crossmatch, and the hemoglobin who reported as 15.2 gm.%, urine normal. Respirations were controlled, the position of the endotracheal tube was checked by auscultation of the chest and reference to the X-rays. The Governor was placed in a semi-lateral position with the wounded side up. The right arm was supported in a sling over his chest from the operating table. The skin incision was made at 1335, 55 minutes after arrival in the Emergency Room.


Doctors Shaw, Boland, and Duke operated for 1 hour 45 minutes. The position was changed to supine, and Doctors Gregory and Osborne operated on the arm and Doctors Shires, Baxter, and McClelland operated on the left thigh simultaneously.


The cyclopropane was turned off at 1645 and 50 mg. meperidine was given intravenously. The Governor regained consciousness during the application of the cast to the right arm and forearm. The endotracheal tube was irrigated with 50 ml. normal saline in the 10 ml increments, followed by suctioning, which yielded moderates amounts of bloody mucous. The oropharynx was cleaned. The estimated blood loss at surgery was 1,296 cc. in the chest bottle, junction bottle, and weighted sponges. Urine output was 450 cc. He received 3 liters of Ringer’s lactate, 2 liters of which contained 5% dextrose, 2,000 ml. whole blood, and 125 ml. 5% dextrose in water. Color was pink, pulse 110,  blood pressure 120/70, extremities were warm and dry. He was awake, could open his eyes and nod his head on command, and so was extubated. Total anesthetic time was 3 hours 50 minutes, operating time 3 hours 15 minutes.


Page 16 (Image 17):


Mr. C.J. Price, Adminstator
Parkland Memorial Hospital
November 25, 1963
Page 3- Narrative summary anesthesia care for Governor John Connally
Upon extubation, Governor Connally spoke immediately, saying he felt well but was somewhat restless, and began groaning and grunting. The immediate postoperative course was satisfactory, without hypotension, and with only a hint of cyanosis, which resolved over the following 3-4 hours, during which period he complained of soreness of his right shoulder and a sensation of needing to urinate, caused by the urethral catheter.
During surgery he received 1 million units of penicillin after determining he was not sensitive by discussion with his wife and a call to Dr. Swift in Austin, Texas. In addition he received 500 mg tetracycline. He had received 0.5 cc. tetanus taxed in the Emergency Room prior to transfer to the Main Operating Suite.
Sincerely,


A.H. Giesecke, Jr., M.D.
/k
cc: Dr. A J. gill, Dean
UTSWMS


Page 17 (Image 18):


The President arrived in the Emergency Room at exactly 12:43 p.m. in his limousine. He was in the back seat, Gov. Connally was in the front seat of the same car, Gov. Connally was brought out first and was put in room two. President was brought out next and put in room one. Dr. Clark pronounced the President dead at 1 p.m. exactly. All of the President’s belongings except his watch were given to the Secret Service. His watch was given to Mr. O.P. Wright. He left the Emergency Room, the President, at about 2 p.m. in an O’Neal ambulance. He was put in a bronze colored plastic casket after being wrapped in a blanket and was taken out of the hospital. He was removed from the hospital. The Gov. was taken from the Emergency Room to the Operating Room. 


The President’s wife refused to take off her bloody gloves, clothes. She did take a towel to wipe her face. She took her wedding ring off and placed it on one of the President’s fingers. 


Page 18 (Image 19):


Summary:
The President arrived at the Emergency Room at 12:43 P.M., the 22nd of November, 1963. He was in the back seat of his limousine. Governor Connally of Texas was also in this car. The first physician to see the President was Dr. James Carrico, a Resident in General Surgery.


Dr. Carrico noted the President to have slow, atonal respiratory efforts. He could hear a heartbeat but found no pulse or blood pressure to be present. Two external wounds, one in the lower third of the anterior neck, the other in the occipital region of the skull, were noted. Through the head wound, blood and brain were extruding. Dr. Carrico inserted a cuffed endotracheal tube.  While doing so, he noted a ragged wound of the trachea immediately below the larynx.


At this time, Dr. Malcom Perry.  Attending Surgeon, Dr. Charles Baxter, Attending Surgeon, and Dr. Ronald jones, another Resident in General Surgery, arrived. Immediately thereafter, Dr. M.T. Jenkins, Director of the Department of Anesthesia, and Doctors Giesecke and Hunt, two other Staff Anesthesiologists, arrived. The endotracheal tube had been connected to a Bennet respirator to assist the President’s breathing. An Anesthesia machine was submitted for this by Dr. Jenkins. Only 100% oxygen was administered. 


A cutdown was performed in the right ankle, and a polyethylene catheter inserted in the vein. An infusion of lactated Ringer’s solution was begun. Blood was drawn for type and crossmatch, but unmatched type.
“O” RH negative blood was immediately obtained and begun. Hydrocortisone 300 moms was added to the intravenous fluids.


Dr. Robert McClelland, Attending Surgeon, arrived to help in the President’s care. Doctor’s Perry, Baxter, and McClelland began a tracheostomy, as considerable quantities of blood were present from the President’s oral pharynx. At this time, Dr. Paul Peters, Attending Urological Surgeon, and Dr. Kemp Clark Director of Neurological Surgery arrived. Because of the lacerated


Page 19 (Image 20):


Summary: 
Page 2


trachea, anterior chest tubes were placed in both pleural spaces. These were connected to sealed underwater drainage.


Neurological examination revealed the President’s pupils to be widely dilated and fixed to light. His eyes were divergent, being deviated outward; a skew deviation from the horizontal was present. No deep tendon reflexes or spontaneous movements were found.


There was a large wound in the right occipitoparietal region, from which profuse bleeding was occurring. 1500 cc. of blood was estimated on the drapes and floor of the Emergency Operation Room. There was considerable loss of scalo and bone tissue. Both cerebral and cerebellar tissue were extruding from the wound.


Further examination was not possible as cardiac arrest occurred at this point. Closed chest cardiac massage was begun by Dr. Clark. A pulse palpable in both the carotid and femoral arteries was obtained. Dr. Perry relieved on the cardiac massage while a cardiotachioscope was connected. Dr. Fouad Bashour, Attending Physician, arrived as this was being connected. There was electrical silence of the President’s heard.


President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300 hours by Dr. Clark.


cc to Dean’s Office, Southwestern Medical School
cc to Medical Records, Parkland Memorial Hospital


Page 20 (Image 21):


 The Assassination of President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, at Dallas, Texas


The President with Mrs. Kennedy and official party arrived at Love Field, Dallas, Texas, aboard AF#1 (USAF 26000) at 11:40 A.M. (cst). After receiving members of the official reception party, the President and Mrs. Kennedy walked over to a fenced area and shook hands with many of the people who had gathered there to view their arrival. At the conclusion of greeting the gathering, The President, Mrs. Kennedy, Governor and Mrs. Connally entered the presidential limousine (special car: bubble-top, 1961 Lincoln Continental, seven passenger, four-door convertible sedan). The President sat on the right rear seat with Mrs. Kennedy to the left of him. Governor Connally sat on the right jump seat and Mrs. Connally sat on the left jump seat. I rode in the front (ride side) and William Greer drove the vehicle.


In the Secret Service follow-up car, 1956 Cadillac touring sedan (top down) driven by SA Samuel Kinnet, ATSAIC Emory Roberts rode in the right front seat, SA John Ready stood on the right front running board, SA Paul Landis on right rear running board, SA Clinton J. Hill on left front running board and William McIntyre on left rear running board. SA Glen Bennet rode in the right rear seat and SA George Hickey on the left rear seat. Mr. Kenneth O’Donnell and Mr. David Power (White House staff) rode the left and right jump seats respectively.


Behind the follow-up car was the Vice President’s car with Vice President and Mrs. Johnson and Senator Yarborough in the rear seat. SA Rufus Youngblood rode in the right front seat and a police officer drove the car. The following vehicles were four cars of congressional members, press cars, VIP bus, and then press busses.


We departed Love Field at 11:55 a.m., along the planned motorcade route, enroute to a luncheon at the Trade Mart, given by the Democratic Citizens Council, scheduled for 12:30 p.m. cst. As the motorcade complete the main thoroughfare through Dallas, we made a sharp right turn, for about a 1/2 block, then a curved left turn into a slight downhill grade, entering an area with little or no spectators. We were still traveling at the normal rate of from 12 to 15 miles per hour when I heard a noise, similar to a firecracker, exploding in the area to the rear of the car, about 12:30 p.m.


Immediately I heard what I firmly believe was the President’s voice, “My God, I’m hit!” I turned around to find out what happened when two additional shots rang out, and the President slumped into Mrs. Kennedy’s




Page 21 (Image 22):


lap and Governor Connally fell into Mrs. Connally’s lap. I heard Mrs. Kennedy shout, “What are they doing to you?”


I yelled at William Greer (the driver) to “Step on it, we’re hit!” and grabbed the mike from the car radio, called to SA Lawson in the police lead car that we were hit and to get us to a hospital.


With SA Lawson riding in the police car they quickly formed the accompanying escort for the motorcade around our limousines and sped us through the streets to the emergency entrance of Parkland Memorial Hospital. Sometime during the ride to the hospital while looking back into the car I noticed SA Hill hanging on to the back of the car, laying across the trunk. When we got to the hospital I called to the agents to get two stretchers. The special agents of the follow-up car with the police ran into the hospital, obtained two stretchers on wheels. We placed the Governor on the first one at which time I Noticed he was conscious and I spoke to him saying, “Governor, everything is going to be all right.”His eyes were wide open and he nodded his head in agreement. Just before we removed the President, SA Hill took off his coat, placed it over the President’s head and chest and we placed him on the stretcher. Both were taken into separate emergency rooms. The hospital staff appeared quickly and went immediately to work. I accompanied the President to the emergency room. His eyes were closed but I could see no visible damage to his face. The room was crowded with the medical people so I immediately walked out into a doctor’s room, asked SA Lawson for the phone number of the White House switchboard in Dallas. SA Hill dialed the number to the White House operator in Washington and I talked with Gerald A. Behn, Special Agent in Charge, White House Detail. I informed that we had an incident in Dallas,The President and Governor Connally had both been shot and both were in emergency room at Parkland Memorial Hospital. This I believe was about 12:38 p.m. cst. This direct telephone line from Dallas to SAIC Behn at Washington was kept open from this time until the place departed. SAIC Behn was kept informed of all proceedings, plans, or desires of both Mrs. Kennedy and President Johnson.


We immediately secured the corridors and the emergency room area, furnished the blood type of the President to the medical staff upon their request. It should be noted that Vice President and Mrs. Johnson were placed in a separate room away from the emergency room. Sometime later SA Warren Taylor came to and said the Vice President wanted to see me, Mr. Johnson asked me the conduction of the President and the Governor. I advised him that the Governor was taken up to surgery, that


Page 22 (Image 23):


The doctors were still working on the President. He asked me to keep him informed of his condition. SA Kinney entered the emergency room area when I returned there and asked if it would be all right to drive the President’s car and the follow up car back to the airport, load them aboard the plane. I said “Yes” and told him to return the cars to Washington D.C.


The 4 to 12 shift (ATSAIC Stout, etc. ) joined us at the emergency room and the 8 to 4 shift (ATSAIC Roberts, etc.) immediately joined the Vice President and Mrs. Johnson.


Through Dr. Burkley, President’s physician, we were advised officially of the death of the President which was registered on the death certificate as 1 p.m. cst. Between 1 p.m., and our departure from the hospital at 2:04 p.m. cst, a casket was obtained and with Mrs. Kennedy, SA Hill and Dr. Burkley riding in the hearse with the casket, SA Berger (Stout and Kellerman in front seat) drove the hearse with police escort to Love Field. 


The Vice President and Mrs. Johnson had preceded us with Roberts shift to the airport and when we had arrived, the field had been secured and we rushed to AF 26000. All available special agents carried the casket from the ambulance up the rear steps and placed it in the rear section of the plane. When we boarded the plane, Vice President Johnson and his party were aboard the plane. The services of Federal Judge Sarah. T. Hughes was obtained, she was brought into the plane, and Vice President Johnson was administered the oath of office and sworn in as President at 2:38 p.m. cst.


At 2:47 p.m. USAF 26000 was airborne for Washington, D.C. arriving at Andrews Air Force Base at 5:58 p.m., est.


While airborne, arrangements were made for a Naval ambulance from the New Naval Medical Center at Bethesda to be available at the airport. Upon landing we removed the casket, placed it into the ambulance. At the airport, Chief Rowley advised me that two FBI agents, Francis O’Neill, Jr., and James Siebert, had been assigned to this case and to allow them into the morgue at the U.S. Naval Hospital. I told Chief Rowley the cars would arrive at Andrews at about 8 p.m., and suggested he assign field agents to them to completely go over them for any evidence that might be found.


Mrs. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and General McHugh sat in the rear of the ambulance; SAs Greer, Landis, and myself with Dr. Burkley rode in the front to Bethesda, with a police escort. The body was immediately taken to the morgue and the family was assigned rooms in the Towers RHK. 


Page 23 (Image 24)


of the Center. Hill and Landis remained with Mrs. Kennedy in her quarters and William Greer and I remained in the morgue and viewed the autopsy examinations which were performed by Vice Admiral Gallwar, Commanding Officer, NNMC, Chief Pathologist Cdr. James Humes, Lt. Col. Pierre A Finck who is Chief, Military Environmental Pathology Division and Chief of Wound Ballistics, Pathology Branch, and J.Thornton Boswell, Cdr. Medical Corps, USN together with Naval Medical Staff. SA O’Leary was also in the morgue briefly. Agents O’Neill and Sievert were present. 


During the night Joseph Gawlers Sons, Inc., funeral directors, were notified by Robert Kennedy and Sargent Shriver and a new coffin was obtained. After the completion of the autopsy and before the embalming I summoned SA Hill down to the morgue to view the body and to witness the damage of the gunshot wounds. The embalming was performed after the autopsy by the staff of Joseph Gawlers.


Prior to our departure from the Naval Hospital I received all film, x-rays, that were used during this autopsy, and upon arrival at the White House I turned them over to SAIC Bouck.


We left the hospital at 3:56 a.m. in the Navy ambulance and with police escort motored to the White House. Mrs. Kennedy and Robert Kennedy rode in the hearse, SA Greer drove, Kellerman in the front seat, SAs Hill and Landis with members of the family rode in cars following the ambulance. We arrived at the White House at 4:24 a.m.. The body was placed in the East Room.


On Wednesday, November 27, 1963, FBI Agents O’Neill and Siebert were given an oral statement along the lines of this report.


Roy H. Kellerman
Assistant Special Agent in Charge
11-29-1963


 Page 24 (Image 25):


Memorandum
To: Mr. G. d’Andelot Belin
General Counsel


From: Mr. James J. Rowley 
Chief U.S. Secret Service


Subject: Secret Service Report on the Assassination of President Kennedy


In response to the request made in the first paragraph of a letter to the Secretary from the General Counsel of the President’s Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy, dated February 28, 1964, there follows a narrative summary of the protective activities of the Secret Service at Parkland Hospital and the return to the White House on November 22, 1963. 


The motorcade, under police escort, consisting of,
The Lead Car, driven by the Dallas Chief of Police, occupied by Sheriff Decker, SAIC Forrest Sorrels, and SA Winston Lawson;
The President’s Car, driven by SA William Greer, occupied by ASAIC Roy Kellermen, President Kennedy, Mrs. Kennedy, Governor Connally, and Mrs. Connally
The President’s Follow Up Car, driven by SA Samuel Kinney, occupied by ATSAIC Emory Roberts, SA Clinton Hill, SA William McIntyre, SA John Ready, SA Paul Landis, SA Glen Bennett, SA George Hickey, and Mr. Dave Powers and Mr. Kenneth O’Donnell,
The Vice President’s Car, driven by Hurchel Jacks of the Texas Department of Public Safety, occupied by ASAID Rufus Youngblood, Vice President Johnson, Mrs. Johnson, and Senator Ralph Yarborough
Vice President’s Follow-Up Car, driven by Joe Henry Rich of the Texas Department of Public Safety, occupied by ATSAIC Thomas Johns, SA Jerry Kivett, SA Warren Taylor, and Mr. Cliff Carter of the Vice President’s Staff.
arrived at the Parkland Hospital at approximately 12:34 p.m.,Central Standard Time.


Page 25 (Image 26):


Mr. Belin, General Counsel
2


Special Agent Lawson entered the hospital and obtained two stretchers on wheels. Special Agents Hill, Roberts, Greer, Kellerman, and Lawson assisted in removing the Presidents and Governor Connally from the car. Governor Cannily was placed on one stretcher, President Kennedy was placed on the other, and each was taken to a separate emergency room. Mrs. Kennedy remained in close proximity to the President within the emergency area at all times. Special Agents Hill and Landis were with Mrs. Kennedy throughout her ordeal at the hospital. SA Landis kept unauthorized persons from the area in which Mrs. Kennedy waited for word of the President’s condition. Sa Lawson remained at the entrance to the emergency room where the President was being cared for, and requested a nurse to identify all hospital personnel who be admitted. ASAIC Kellerman, from a nearby doctor’s room, placed a call to SAIC Behn at the White House. ASAIC Kellerman informed SAIC Behn that the President and Governor Connally had been shot and were in the emergency rooms at Parkland Memorial Hospital. The line was then kept open until Mrs. Kennedy departed from the hospital, and SAIC Behn was kept advised of developments as they occurred. The blood type of President was furnished to the medical staff by ASAIC Kellerman. A security cordon was formed around the emergency area by ASAIC Kellerman and Special Agents Greer, Ready, Kinney, Hickey, and Howlett, of the Secret Service, and an undetermined number of Dallas Police,. Press and unauthorized persons were refused admittance to the area. 


Vice President and MRs. Johnson were placed in a separate hospital room in the vicinity of the emergency rooms within the secured area. They were accompanied by ASAIC Youngblood and Special Agents Kivett, Bennett, McIntyre and Taylor. SA Bennet assumed a post at the door of the Vice President’s suite. Special Agents Kivett and Taylor had cleared other occupants from the room and had drawn the bonds. Mrs. Johnson, accompanied by Special Agents Kivett and Taylor, left the area briefly to visit Mrs. Connally on another floor of the hospital.




Shortly after his arrival, the Vice Presdient sent SA Taylor for ASAIC Kellerman and inquired on the condition of the President and Governor. He was told the Governor was in surgery and that the doctors were still working on the President. He asked to be kept informed of the President’s condition.




SA Kivett called Headquarters and arranged for security to be placed upon Miss Lynda Johnson at the University of Texas, and Miss Lucy Johnson at the National Cathedral School in Washington. 
ASAIC Kellerman authorized the return of the President’s car to the airport for loading aboard a C-130 for the return to Washington D.C. The purpose was to preserve its condition unchanged for the earliest possible examination. The car was driven to Love Field by SA Hickey, accompanied by SA Kinney, both accompanied it in the aircraft on the return flight. 


Page 26 (Image 27):
Mr. Belin, General Counsel
3


ATSAIC Stout and Special Agents Grant, Sulliman, Olsson, Berger, and Johnson, of the 4 to 12 shift of the White House Detail, who had been awaiting the President’s arrival at the Trade Mart, joined the security group at the hospital and replaced ATSAIC Roberts’ shift on the secured emergency area. The secret Service shift, consisting of ATSAIC Roberts and Special Agents McIntyre, Bennett and Ready, who had been riding in the follow-up car at the time of the shooting, supplemented the Vice Presidential Detail, consisting of ATSAIC Johns and Special Agents Taylor and Kivettt, in assuming responsibility for the protection of the Vice President and Mrs. Johnson in the hospital.


The Vice President made a statement to the effect that he did not wish to leave Dallas without the approval of a staff member of the President’s party and the Secret Service. At this time, ATSAIC Roberts, upon request of the Vice President, discussed with Mr. Kenneth O’Donnell the necessity and practicability of the Vice President returning to Washington on Air Force 1. Mr. O’Donnell indicated to the Vice President that he could leave Dallas.


ATSAIC Emory Roberts made arrangements with the Dallas Police to have unmarked police cars for the Vice President, the Presidential party, and a group of Secret Service agents to return to Love Field.


SA Lawson notified Secret Service Special Agents from the White House Detail, who were in Austin, Texas to return to Washington immediately. He then assisted in preparing the motorcade for the return to Love Field.


At 1 p.m., ASAIC Kellerman was advised of the death of the President by Doctor Burkley, and Vice President Johnson was notified of the death of the President by members of the President’s staff in the presence of Secret Service Agents Kellerman, Youngblood, and Kivett.


While SAIC Behn was being informed of the situation in the hospital, SA Hill had advised the Attorney General that the President had been seriously injured by gunfire. Upon being told of the death of the President, SA Hill contacted the Attorney General and advised him of the President’s death.


Arrangements were made through the Air Force Aide by ASAIC Youngblood and SA Kivett for the President’s plane (Air Force 1) to be made ready for the return to Washington. SA Lawton, at Love Field, had issued orders that no press would be admitted to the vicinity of Air Force 1. Security on the plane had been completed by Air Force sentries and Secret Service Agents Lawton, Rybka, Patterson, and Warner, who had remained at Love Field awaiting the return of the Presidential party.




Page 27 (Image 28):


Mr. Belen, General Counsel
4
All persons, except security and maintenance personnel, had been cleared from the area and the buildings overlooking the plane site. A large detail of Dallas police arrived dispatched by Chief Curry to assist in the security.


After the Vice President had been notified of the death of the President, Mr. Malcolm Kilduff, Assistant Press Secretary entered President Johnson’s room about 1:13 p.m. and it was decided that the notification of the death of President Kennedy would not be released to the Press until President Johnson had left the hospital. A decision had been made by Mrs. Kennedy and the White House Staff to return the body of President Kennedy to Washington in Air Force 1.


President Johnson, accompanied by Mr. Cliff Carter and ASAIC Youngblood left Parkland Hospital in an unmarked police car, driven by Police Chief Curry, under escort for Love Field, where they boarded Air Force 1. During the ride President Johnson, on the instructions of ASAIC Youngblood remained slumped in the back seat below the window level and was shielded by Youngblood. Mrs. Johnson rode in a police car directly behind President Johnson. She was accompanied by Congressman Brooks and Special Agents Warren Taylor, Jerry Kivett, and Glen Bennett, of the Secret Service. In the car immediately behind her, driven by a Dallas policeman, was ATSAIC Roberts, Special Agents Randy and McIntyre, and Chief Warrant Officer Gearhart, a White House Communication Courier. Special Agent Johns followed in another police car.


President and Mrs. Johnson arrived at Love Field and boarded Air Force 1 at approximately 1:40 p.m. Special Agents present at Love Field and those who had arrived with President Johnson were posted and around the aircraft. Aboard the aircraft President and Mrs. Johnson remained in the stateroom area. They were joined by Congressmen Thornberry, Brooks, and Thomas. ASAIC Youngblood remained with President Johnson at all times. The President called the Attorney General concerning the legal aspects of taking the oath of the Presidency. President Johnson then called Federal Judge Sarah Hughes and requested her to come to the plane. The President also requested that he be kept advised of the location of Mrs. Kennedy and the body of the late President and to inform him when the President’s body would arrive. Mrs. Kennedy and the body of the late President arrived at the plane before Judge Hughes. Upon arrival of Judge Hughes the oath was admonished at approximately 2:40 p.m. Photographs of the ceremony were taken by Cecil Stoughton, a United States Army photographer assigned to the White House. At the invitation of the President, the following persons witnessed the swearing in ceremony, which took place in the Presidential compartment.
Mrs. Johnson
Mrs. Kennedy
Jack Valenti
Cong. Homer Thornberry
Cong. Albert Thomas
Cong. Jack Brooks
Mrs. Eveyln Lincoln
Miss Marie Fermer
Miss Pamela Turnure
Police Chief Curry
William Moyres 
Malcom Kilduff
Rufus Youngblood
Roy. H. Kellerman
Thomas L. Johns
Paul E. Landis
Richard Johnson
Capt. Cecil Stoughton (Photographer)


Page 28 (Image 29):


Mr. Belin, General Counsel
5


After the death of President Kennedy, SA Hill was directed by Mr. Kenneth O’Donnell to obtain a casket so that the body of the President could be transported back to Washington as quickly as possible. The casket arrived at approximately 1:40 p.m., and was wheeled directly into the emergency room. The President’s body was removed from the stretcher, upon which it had remained since his arrival at the hospital, and placed in the casket.


Special Agent Lawson, through Doctor Burkely, arranged with Sheriff William Decker for the release of President Kennedy’s body.


A route was selected from the hospital to Love Field by ATSAID Johns and police. A request was made by SA Grant to the police to have the route cleared. An ambulance of the O’Neal Mortuary Company stood by, and at approximately 1:58 p.m., Mrs. Kennedy and the President’s body, accompanied by Secret Service car, driven by SA Greer, occupied by SA Landis, followed the hearse, which was driven by SA Berger and arrived at Love Field at 2:14 p.m. A Dallas police car, with SA Lawson led the motorcade. The casket was placed in the left rear corner of Air Force 1 were four seats had been removed to provide the necessary space. One special Agent was with the casket during the flight.


Air Force 1 arrived at Andrews Air Force Base at 5:58 p.m., at which time Attorney General Robert Kennedy joined Mrs. Kennedy aboard Air Force 1.


Security arrangements had been placed in effect at Andrews Air Force Base by Secret Service personnel from Headquarters, White House Detail, and the Washington Field Office, supplemented by a detail of Air Police, members of the Metropolitan and U.S. Park Police; the latter were used for escort duty. The public had been excluded from Andrews Air Force Base and only Government officials and Press were allowed in the vicinity of the air strip.


Upon alighting from the plane, the President was surrounded by the agents who accompanied him from Dallas, and by a detail of Special Agents from the Washington Field Office and Headquarters, under the personal direction of Chief Rowley. This security cordon conducted the President to a press area where he spoke to the press, radio, and television correspondents, and then walked to his helicopter.


The President and Mrs. Johnson traveled by helicopter to the White House grounds, accompanied by Chief Rowley and ASAIC Youngblood. The President walked to his office in the Executive Office Building and appropriate post assignments were assumed by ASAIC Youngblood, ATSAIC Stout, and Special Agents Sulliman, Olsson, Berger, Johnson, Kivett, Johns, and Taylor who had accompanied the President from Dallas and who, except for ASAIC Youngblood were in an accompanying helicopter from Andrews Air Force Base to the White House. Mrs. Johnson was driven to her residence , under escort, by SAIC Knight and ATSAIC Rundle, from Washington.


Page 29 (Image 30):


Mr. Belin, General Counsel
6


Special Agents Roberts, Ready, Lawton, ad McIntyre returned on the back-up plane and remained on duty at the White House.


President Kennedy’s body, Mrs. Kennedy, the Attorney General, General Godfrey McHugh, and Doctor Burkley accompanied by ASAIC Kellerman and SA Landis were driven in an ambulance by SA Greer to Bethesda Naval Hospital. Special Agents Hill and O’Leary followed in another vehicle.


ASAIC Kellerman and SA Greer remained at the Bethesda Hospital Morgue during the autopsy. SA Landis remained at the hospital at all times during the vicinity of Mrs. Kennedy’s quarters on the 17th floor, where he and SA Hill secured the area and allowed into the suite only hospital personnel assigned to the area, the Kennedy family, and close personal friends. SA O’Leary assisted  in this security. SA Hill was also present at the completion of the autopsy and the preparation of President Kennedy’s body after the autopsy. ASAIC Kellerman and SA Greer assumed responsibility for President Kennedy’s personal effects and the photographic records made of the autopsy.


The casket containing President Kennedy’s body was taken from the U.S. Naval Hospital at 3:56 a.m., accompanied by Mrs. Kennedy, the Attorney General, and ASAIC Kellerman, in an ambulance driven by SA Greer, under police escort. SA Hill rode in a car immediately behind the ambulance. SA Landis followed in another car. The motorcade arrived at the White House at 4:24 a.m., and the casket was placed in the East Room of the White House.