JOHN CONNALLY https://catalog.archives.gov/id/7460429 


PAGE 1


Connally, John B.
4 Interviews 


PAGE 2


AS
Connally, John B.


Memorandum 
March 31, 1964


To: Mr. J. Lee Rankin
From: Arlen Spector
Subject: Outline Of Suggested Questions For Governor John B. Connally 


In formulating the questions, I have included all topics which I think may be of interest to the Commission, in my opinion, the Commission should have all my ideas and then questions can be deleted which are deemed irrelevant or too specific. 


A. Events Preceding The Assassination
1. When, to the best of your recollection, did you first invite or discuss with President Kennedy a possible trip to Texas in November, 1963?
2. When, to the best of your recollection, did President Kennedy first state that he would definitely come to Texas in November, 1963?
3. When, to the best of your recollection, were the plans complete that President Kennedy would visit Dallas on November 22, 1963?
4. When and where did you meet President Kennedy on his trip to Texas?
5. Describe, in a general way, your activities with the Presidential party prior to Friday, November 22, 1963?
6. What were your activities, in a general way, on Friday, November 22nd, prior to the time you left the plane at Love Field in Dallas, Texas?
7. Describe, in a general way, your activities in greeting the crowd at Love Field after disembarking from the place/
8. Identify the people who rode in the President's automobile and specify their positions in that automobile.
9. Was the automobile open or was there any covering on, such as the bubble top?
10. Describe, in a general way, the size and reaction of the crowd on the motorcade route prior to the intersection of Houston and Elm Streets.


PAGE 3


AS
-2-


11. Are there any special events which stand out on the motorcade trip prior to the intersection of Houston and Elm Streets?


B. The Assassination


12. Had Mrs. Connally and you been talking immediately before the shooting?
13. Had you or Mrs. Connally joined in any conversation with President Kennedy or Mrs. Kennedy immediately before the shooting?
14. Was there an appreciable amount of noise coming from the crowd immediately before the shooting?
15. Did you have any difficulty in hearing Mrs. Connally, or did she have to raise her voice to talk to you immediately before the shooting?
16. Did you have any difficulty in hearing the President or Mrs. Kennedy, or did they have to raise their voices in order to be heard immediately before the shooting?
17. At any time shortly before the shooting, did you or anyone else in the automobile have any occasion to have conversation with Special Agent Greer, the driver, or with Special Agent Kellerman who was seated on the righthand side of the front seat?
18. If so, did any parties to such conversations have any difficulty hearing each other, or was it necessary for anyone to raise his voice?
19. As precisely as you are able to state, what time did the first shot take place?
20. As precisely as you are able to stare, where was the President's automobile at the time of the first shot?
21. Please mark a photograph (to be provided) indicating, as precisely as possible, the location of the President's car at the time of the first shot.
22. To the best of your recollection, in what direction were you looking at the time of the first shot?
23. What did you think the first shot was?
24. Did you alter your glance, or what was your reaction to the first shot?


PAGE 4


AS
-3-


25. What movement, if any, did you make after the first shot?
26. To the best of your ability to recollect and estimate, how many seconds after the first shot did you look toward President Kennedy?
27. Did you observe any reaction by President Kennedy to the first shot?
28. What, if anything, did President Kennedy say after the first shot? (According to Special Agent Kellerman, President Kennedy said "My God, I'm hit.")
29. What, if anything, was said immediately after the first shot by
a. you?
b. Mrs. Kennedy?
c. Mrs. Connally?
d. Special Agent Greer?
e. Special Agent Kellerman?
30. Immediately after the first shot, did you observe any reaction by
a. Mrs. Kennedy?
b. Mrs. Connally?
c. Special Agent Greer?
d. Special Agent Kellerman?
31. What, if anything, did you observe or hear outside your own automobile at the time of the first shot?
32. Did you hear a second shot? If so, then please answer Questions 33 through 38.
33. What is your best estimate as to the time which elapsed between the first and second shots?
34. What was the reaction, if any, to the second shot by 
a. you?
b. The President?
c. Mrs. Kennedy?
d. Mrs. Connally?
e. Special Agent Greer?
f. Special Agent Kellerman?
35.


PAGE 5


AS
-4-


35. What, if anything, was said after the second shot by
a. you?
b. The President?
c. Mrs. Kennedy?
d. Mrs. Connally?
e. Special Agent Greer?
f. Special Agent Kellerman?
36. To the best of your recollection, what was your exact position at the time you heard the second shot?
37. What movement, if any, did you make after the second shot? (from the movies, you appear to have fallen into your wife's lap.)
38. What, if anything, did you observe or hear outside of your own automobile at the time of the second shot?
39. Did you hear a third shot?
40. Were you conscious after the third shot? (If so, then the general content of Questions 33 through 38 will be repeated.)
41. Did you hear anything which you consider to be additional shots? (If answered affirmatively, then the general content of Questions 33 through 38 will be repeated.)
42. What would you estimate was the speed of the President's car at the time of each shot?
43. What is your estimate on the distance traveled by the President's ear from the first until the last shot you heard?
44. What was your impression, if any, as to the source of the shots?
45. Did you observe any bullet or fragment strike the windshield?
46. Did you observe any other bullet or fragment in the air or the car?
47. Do you believe you were hit by the first shot or second shot, or both?
48. What are your reasons for your answer to the preceding question?
49. Do you believe that one bullet caused all the injuries you sustained in the shooting?


PAGE 6


AS
-5-


50. Did the bullet pass through the dorsal (backside) of your wrist, or the volar (front or palm side) of your wrist?
51. What is your reasons for your answer to the preceding question?
52. As nearly as you can recollect, place your body in the same position you were in at the time you were struck by the bullet in your back.


C. Post-Assassination Events
53. If you were conscious and have any current recollection, describe the pair or other sensation you experienced immediately after the shooting.
54. If you were conscious and have any recollection, describe the trip from the assassination scene to Parkland Hospital.
55. If you were conscious and have any recollection, describe the action taken by the hospital attendants in removing you from the President's car and in taking you into the emergency room.
56. Do you know whether there was any bullet or bullet-fragment which remained in your body or on your clothing as you were placed on the emergency stretcher at Parkland Hospital?
57. Describe, in a general way, all post-shooting events until you were rendered unconscious by the bullet or the anesthesia used in the operation.
58. Describe, in a general way, the operations which were performed on you at Parkland Hospital.
59. Describe, in a general way, your treatment and convalescence at Parkland Hospital following the operations.
60. If you care to, please comment on the status of your recovery at the present time.


D. General Information 
61. Were there any events or occurrences either before the trip to Texas, during that trip or after that trip which shed light on the facts surrounding the assassination of President Kennedy?
62. Were there any conversations involving you or anyone else either before the trip to Texas, during that trip or after that trip which shed light on the facts surrounding the assassination of President Kennedy?


PAGE 7


AS
-6-


63. In the light of the function of this Commission to investigate the assassination of President Kennedy and its historical significance, are there any other facts which you consider relevant or helpful to our inquiry?


PAGE 8


Connally, John B-4


JLR: NR:mar
T/4/15/64
APR 16 1964


cc: Mr. Ranklin
Mr. Willens
Mr. Redlich


Honorable John B. Connally
Governor of Texas
Austin, Texas


Dear Governor Connally:


I am pleased to confirm the arrangements made by telephone between Mr. Norman Redlich of the Commission staff and Mr. Bill Stinson, Mrs. Connally before the Commission of Tuesday, April 21, 1964.


It is my understanding that you and Mrs. Connally will be available at 10:30 a.m. at the Commission office for the purpose of viewing motion pictures and the slides of the assassination.  The testimony of you and Mrs. Connally.  The above schedule has been not in order to permit you to see the films prior to your testimony and else to permit Chief Justice Warren to be present when your testimony is taken.  The Supreme Court is in session next week and the Chief Justice will be able to preside at the Commission hearing immediately upon the conclusion of the Court's session at 2:30.


It is also my understanding that your office is handling transportation arrangements to Washington.


You assistance in the work of the Commission is much appreciated.


Sincerely,


SIGNED


J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel


PAGE 9


Optional Form No. 18
5010-102


CO-2-30,030


United States Government


Memorandum U.S. Secret Service Connolly, John B. 4


DATE: July 22, 1964
Dr. Goldby
TO: Chief, Attn: Inspector Kelley
FROM: SAIC Sorrels, Dallas


PAGE 10


PKT - 27


100
Parkland Hospital, November 27, 1963
Testing for pickup of Governor John Connally in hospital room.  Flash of Connally in bed, exterior shots of the hospital, Martin Agronsky, pool correspondent, tests audio.  
To black
5:06
Pan of the exterior of Parkland Hospital.
5:16
Conally's hospital room.  Present are Martin Agronsky, a Negro nurse or nurses' aid, and the governor, lying in bed, his arm suspended in a sling.


Agronsky leads Connally through his reaction to the shooting at the time.  The government tells of the magnificent reception the President had received.  He turned to the President at the first shot and was hit, and realized that he was hit badly. "My God, they're going to kill us all."  He hear Mrs. Kennedy's cry: "Oh my God, they've killed my husband.  Oh Jack - Jack -" Connally says that he was conscious during the dash to the hospital.


He says that he has asked why he was spared; who the assassin was after.  Now thinks that the man intended to kill both himself and the President.  He talks of the cancerous growth of hatred - bigotry - lawlessness - and says that he is not fearful of foreign enemies if this country has knowledge and tolerance.  He learned that the President had been killed on Saturday, but says that he was sure at the time.  His first thoughts on it were - what a horrible tragedy - how in a fleeting moment things can chance.  He mentions that he and the President were the identical age, had two of the most beautiful wives in the country.


11:52
Mrs. Connally first appears.
On the subject of a memorial to the President, Connally agrees, but has no ideas on type.  He does say that it must not be a memorial for absolving selves.


14:30
Full room shot of the governor, Mrs. Connally, the Negro nurse, and Agronsky.  The Governor talks of hate - bigotry - Birmingham - fanaticism.  Agronsky mentions that the tragedy gave the United States the first Southern president in a hundred years.  They talk of President Johnson - personal glimpses - background - the man.  Connally praises the new President.  Agronsky signs off.


1701


PAGE 11


PKT - 27 - 2
23:22
Exterior shot of hospital.
23:35
24:02


Police Headquarters, City Hall - Corridor.  Reporters and photographers are clustered around a man whom we hear but do not see (Tom Howard).  The man is talking about Jack Ruby - says that he visited him and he will not make statement.  Howard says he advised him of his legals rights.  When asked what plea he will use, Howard says he will represent Ruby to the best of his ability.  Questioned further, he says that this means he will try for a verdict of “not guilty”.  Paul Good signs off this interview and explains that the voice has been Tom Howard.
25:39
Same corridor.  Tom Howard is talking to others.  We cannot see his face well in this pickup.  He says that he has not discussed case with Ruby because the prisoner has been in mental condition to do so.  He has been nervous - upset - near tears.  Howard explains that he was called in by Ruby’s business partner and has presented Ruby before.  He cannot recall nature of case.  States he knows Ruby well.  To black.  
28:39
Bill Lord interviews Henry Wade, District Attorney.  Asked what was meant by case closed, Wade explains that this referred to case against Oswald, who is now dead.  Some 
Of the evidence against Oswald: the man fitted the general description of the assassin - a witness placed similar man in window - fresh finger and hand prints - ejected shells from a rifle traced to Oswald under an assumed name and shipped from a mail order house.  Cards found on Oswald identified him as the assumed name.  Pictures were found which show Oswald with rifle and a pistol in his belt.  At the Texas School Book Depository Building immediately after the shooting of the President, a policy officer was about to detain Oswald, but the boss said the man was an employee.


Oswald caught a bus on Lamar and told the driver that the President had been shot.  Oswald laughed at the time.  Left bus and took a taxi.  He has been identified by the taxi driver.  He went home and changed clothes.  Witnesses saw him shoot Officer J.D. Trippit - followed him until he entered the Texas Theater.  At the time of 


PAGE 12