RAY, FRANK HENRY https://catalog.archives.gov/id/7461007


FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59)       FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION   (handwritten) KP O-Post-7
(handwritten and circled) 6   KP
(handwritten in red and underlined in center) Ray, Frank
(printed in top right corner underlined) Date 12/6/63
Other Individuals and Organizations
Involved of Interviewed


       THOMAS RAY (checkmark) resident of Northeast Brossom,
Texas, telephone 334-5244, an employee of the Gulf Oil
Company, Paris, Texas, appeared at the Paris, Texas,
Resident Agency of the FBI and volunteered the following
information:


       RAY explained that he was married to a Russian
girl in Germany in 1946, and he soon thereafter returned
to the United States with her. She was subsequently
naturalized and received her citizenship papers in
Federal Court in Paris, Texas.


       RAY stated that there is a group of former
Russians throughout the State of Texas who try to keep
in touch with one another from time to time and that
because his wife was a native-born Russian she was invited
to a party in Dallas, Texas, on December 28 - 29, 1962,
in attendance at which were many other Russians. The
party lasted two days and among those present was LEE
HARVEY OSWALD. Mr. RAY stated that in view of OSWALD's
presence he felt that the people at this party might have
information concerning OSWALD and should possibly be con-
tacted by the FBI in connection with the investigation
of the assassination of President KENNEDY.


        RAY advised that many of the people present at
the party would have considerable information about OSWALD
and his family.


       RAY stated he did not pay too much attention
to OSWALD at the party since OSWALD talked mostly to the
Russian-speaking people at the party. He commented that
OSWALD spoke Russian fluently and that Mrs. RAY had talked
to OSWALD at length, and she expressed her amazement at
OSWALD's understanding of Russian and his talk concerning
the Communist Party line.


       Mr. RAY stated that the party described above
was held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. DECLAN T. FORD, (check mark)
14057 Brookcrest Drive, Dallas, Texas, telephone AD 9-5642.
He stated that Mrs. DECLAN T. FORD is a Russian.


(there is a line as a break in the page)


(handwritten) CR 206
on 11/26/63 (underlined) at Paris, Texas (underlined) File # DL 100-10461 (underlined)
by Special Agent DEL D. DRAKE. JR. /cv (underlined) Date dictated 12/2/63 (underlined)


This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.




















































DL 100-10461
DDD:cv
2(underlined)


      RAY stated that also in attendance was GEORGE
BOUHE (checkmark) 4740 Homer Street, Apartment 0, telephone TA 7-2288,
Dallas, Texas. RAY identified BOUHE as a bachelor who
apparently keeps in contact with as many Russian-born
people as he can.


    Also at this party were Mr. and Mrs. TEOFIL
MELLER (checkmark) 5930 1/2 LaVista Drive, telephone TA 3-2219, Dallas,
Texas. Both of these people are Russian born.


    Also present at the party was an individual
named FRANK RAY (checkmark) and his Russian-born wife. FRANK RAY is
no relation to THOMAS RAY, and THOMAS RAY stated he did
not know their address and that they may now be separated.


   RAY explained that a businessman, C.E. HARRIS, JR.,
904 East 12th Street, Georgetown, Texas, telephone VN 3-3086,
and his wife, who is Russian born, were also at the party.


     When the party broke up at the FORD residence,
many of the persons present, including the RAYs, went to
a very lavish home somewhere in Dallas. The owners of
this home, both American, were supposedly business people,
and the husband is the son of a pioneer of Dallas. RAY
stated that this man's wife remarked that her husband owned
"ten acres of downtown Dallas".


     RAY explained that BOUHE, the MELLERs and the
FORDs befriended OSWALD, and one of these families had
allowed Mrs. OSWALD to live with them for a long period of
time. It was understood that OSWALD mistreated his wife
a great deal and that he did not appreciate any help given
to him for his ill-kept family.


(handwritten) CR L06 (printed) 157








FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59)   FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
1 (underlined)   (far right corner) Date Dec. 20, 1963 (underlined)


        Mr. FRANK RAY, (circled in red with a handwritten KP) co-owner of the Pollock-Ray Company,
3508 Dickason, was recontacted to determine if he had any acquaintance
and/or knowledge of LEE HARVEY OSWALD and JACK RUBY. Mr. RAY
stated he had been acquainted with OSWALD, having met him twice
during a period from November 1, 1962, to January 1, 1963.
Mr. RAY advised he was not acquainted with JACK RUBY and knew
of no association between RUBY and OSWALD. He stated that during
his conversation with LEE HARVEY OSWALD he had never heard the
name JACK RUBY mentioned.


(there was a page break)


(handwritten on right side) CR 106
on 12/18/63 (underlined) at Dallas, Texas (underlined) File # DL 44-1639 (underlined)
by Special Agent GARY S. WILSON/csh (underlined) Date dictated 12/19/63 (underlined)


This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
(handwritten on the word conclusion) 293
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.


































FD-302 (Rev.. 3-3-59)     FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
1 (underlined)    (printed in red on right side) Other Individuals and Organization
Involved or Interviewed
(printed on right corner) Date February 6, 1964 (underlined)
(handwritten in center of page) KP


       Mr. FRANK HENRY RAY, (underlined in red with checkmark) 4524 Alta Vista Lane,
was reinterviewed at his place of business, Pollock-Ray
Company, 3508 Dickason Street, Dallas, Texas, and advised
he could furnish no information concerning the
residence of LEE HARVEY OSWALD for the period October 19
through November 2, 1962.


(page break)
(printed in center of page) 263 (handwritten in red on right side of page) CR 385
on 2/5/64 (underlined) at Dallas, Texas (underlined) File # DL 100-10451 (underlined)
by Special Agent RAYMOND P. YELCHAK - gj (underlined) Date dictated 2/6/64 (underlined)


This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.












































(handwritten in a circle) 8
(printed in center) 10 February 1964
(printed in right corner) Oswald, Lee H. Post-Russian Period (handwritten) 7


Captain W. P. Gannaway
Special Service Bureau
Dallas Police Department


(printed on right side of page) Other Individuals and Organizations
Involved or Interviewed


Thru:
Lieutenant Jack Revill
Criminal Intelligence Section
Special Service Bureau
Dallas Police Department


(printed on right side of page) SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE (6)
(circled by hand) THOMAS M. AND NATALIE RAY (underlined) (AND NATALIE is crossed out)


Sir:
      Pursuant to the instructions of Captain W. P. Gannaway SUBJECT
investigation was conducted with the following results.


      Information was received by this office that SUBJECTS, who re-
side at BLOSSOM, TEXAS on FARM ROAD 1502, were friends of LEE HARVEY (underlined)
OSWALD (underlined) and that OSWALD stayed at their home a few days prior to the
assassination of PRESIDENT KENNEDY.


       SUBJECTS were interviewed, by the undersigned officers, and
stated that they had met OSWALD, at a party on December 28, 1962 at
the home of MR. DECLAN FORD (underlined and circled) who now resides at 14057 BROOKCREST, (underlined) DALLAS, 
TEXAS. SUBJECTS stated that they were invited to the party by MR. ED (underlined)
HARRIS, (underlined and circled) who resides in GEORGETOWN, TEXAS and operates a cleaning estab-
lishment at this location. SUBJECTS stated that there is a FRANK AND (underlined and circled in red and black)
ANNA RAY, (underlined and circled in red and black) who reside in DALLAS, TEXAS, that were good friends of the
OSWALDS. SUBJECTS stated that the people who attended this party were
either RUSSIAN BORN or married to someone who was. The following is a
list of some of the people who attended this party: DANIEL F. SULLIVAN (underlined and circled in black)
GEOLOGIST for the CONTINENTAL OIL COMPANY located at LA FAYETTE, LOUISI-
ANA, GEORGE BOUHE (underlined and circled) 4740 HOMER APT. O DALLAS, TEXAS, ANNA & TEOFIL MELLER (from Anna to Meller circled and underlined)
5990 1/2 LA VISTA, DALLAS, TEXAS, TATIANA BIGGEES (underlined) 2805 WESR LANE (underlined) DRIVE,
HOUSTON, TEXAS and DECLAN FORD (underlined, crossed out, and circled) 14057 BROOKCREST, (underlined) DALLAS, TEXAS, SUBJECTS
stated that this was the only time they ever met OSWALD. NATALIE RAY (circled) was
RUSSIAN BORN.


                                      Respectfully submitted,
                                       (signature)
                                      F. A. HELLINGHAUSEN, DETECTIVE
                                      Criminal Intelligence Section
                                       (signature)
                                     P. M. Parks, Detective
                                     Criminal Intelligence Section


(handwritten next to second signature) CR 950
(printed in square stamp in lower right corner) INDEXED
(printed) DATE (handwritten) 2-11-64
(printed) INITIALS (handwritten) S


(Then in the bottom right corner there is some illegible writing)


































(handwritten in left corner) 4
(printed in center of page) February 12, 1964
(printed in right corner) Oswald, Lee H. Post-Russian Period (handwritten) 7


Captain W. P. Gannaway
Special Service Bureau
Dallas Police Department


(printed on right side of page) Other Individuals and Organizations
Involved or Interviewed


Thru:
Lieutenant Jack Revill
Criminal Intelligence Section
Special Service Bureau
Dallas Police Department


(printed on right side of page) SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE (6)
DECLAN FORD (underlined and circled)


Sir:


      Pursuant to the instructions of Captain W. P. Gannaway,
SUBJECT was interviewed by the undersigned officers and the
following report submitted.


     SUBJECT, a geologist, resides at 14057 Brookcrest (underlined) with
his wife, KATYA, (underlined) who is Russian born. Their telephone number
is AD9-5642. (underlined) They stated that they held a small party at their
residence about August 25, 1962, and that LEE HARVEY OSWALD and
his wife, MARINA, were brought to this gathering by PETER (underlined and circled)
GREGORY (underlined and circled) from Fort Worth. SUBJECT said that OSWALD was very
withdrawn and difficult to talk to for any length of time.


      SUBJECT stated that MARINA stayed at their home from
November 11, 1962, to November 17, 1962, because of some
domestic trouble that she and LEE HARVEY were having. On
November 17, 1962, SUBJECT took MARINA, her child, and belong-
ings to the residence of FRANK and ANNA RAY, (underlined and circled) 4524 Alta Vista, (underlined)
where she was to stay for awhile. However, OSWALD effected a
reconciliation with his wife on November 18, 1962, and took
her to 602 Elsbeth. (underlined) SUBJECT said that she saw LEE HARVEY OSWALD
three times; on the aforementioned August date; on November 18,
1962, at the residence of FRANK RAY; (circled in red and black) and on December 28, 1962,
at a party that he (FORD) gave at his home. SUBJECT also stated
that he had never heard of JACK RUBY until OSWALD was slain.


                                 Respectfully submitted,
                                  (signature)
                                 R. A. Hellinghausen, Detective
                                  (signature)
                                P. M. Parks, Detective
                                Criminal Intelligence Section


(printed in a square stamp) INDEXED
(printed) DATE (handwritten) 2-17-64
(printed) INITIALS (handwritten) S


(handwritten under print) CR 950
(there is also some un legible writing on the bottom of the page)


















































(printed in left corner) Form No. 1588 (Revised)
MEMORANDUM REPORT
(7-1-50)
(handwritten and circled) 14


(handwritten in center of page in red) Ray, Frank
(handwritten next to name) KP
(printed in center of page) UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT


(printed in right corner) Oswald, Lee H. Post-Russian Period (handwritten) 7
(handwritten) K.P.
(printed) Oswald, Marina (handwritten) 5


(the rest of the sheet is similar to a standard form filled in with type)


ORIGIN Field             OFFICE Dallas                  FILE NO. CO- 2- 34, 030
TYPE OF CASE          STATUS                           TITLE OF CAPTION
Protective Research     Continued                       Assassination of President Kennedy,
                                                                              Dallas, Texas
INVESTIGATION MADE AT                       PERIOD COVERED
Dallas & Fort Worth, Texas December 2 - 11, 1963
INVESTIGATION MADE BY
SA's Maurice Miller, Edward Moore, Talmadge Bailey,
Roger Warner & William Carter
DETAILS
                              SYNOPSIS (underlined)
Known Russian associates of Lee Harvey Oswald and his
wife were personally interviewed in regards to their
relationship. Nothing was developed to indicate the
persons contacted had any knowledge of the assassi-
nation plot.


(handwritten to the left and circled) K. P.
George de Mohrenschildt, (underlined with a check mark on top) a Russian who is reported to
have maintained a close relationship with Oswald, is
presently residing in Port Au Prince, Haiti. The matter
of an interview with de Mohrenschildt is referred to the
Chief's Office for determination.


DETAILS OF INVESTIGATION (underlined)


   Reference is made to previous reports.


   On December 2, 1963, it was ascertained that Alex Kleinlerner (underlined with a check) (name
found on piece of paper in wallet of Lee Oswald) is a foreign representative
for Loma Industries, a plastics production company located at 3000 Pafford
Road, Fort Worth, Texas.


     Mr. Kleinlerner was personally interviewed at his place of employment
December 3, 1963, by SA Maurice Miller and the reporting agent. He stated
he resides at 3542 1/2 Kent Street, telephone WA 3-2525, Fort Worth. He is 40
years of age and single. He claims to have been born in Poland of Polish
parents, both of whom died in German concentration camps during World War
II. He was confined to Buchenwald until 1945 when he was liberated by
General Patton's forces. He immediately moved to Checkoslovakia and then
to France. From France he came to the United States in May 1956 and 


DISTRIBUTION        COPIES         REPORT MADE BY        DATE
Chief                        Orig. & 2            (signature)                     12-12-63
Dallas                       2                      SPECIAL AGENT


                                                         APPROVED                    DATE
                                                          (signature)        613           12-12-63
                                               SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE
     (CONTINUE ON PLAIN PAPER)     U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 16-61806-1






































(in upper right corner) CO-2-34, 030
Page 2


immediately found employment with Loma Industries. He returned to France
as a foreign representative for that company in November 1957, and made a
visit to this country for a couple of weeks duration in July or August 1959.
He again returned to this country in June 1961 and became a naturalized
citizen in May 1963. Because of his ability to speak a number of European
languages, Mr. Kleinlerner has become associated with numerous foreign
speaking individuals in the Fort Worth-Dallas area. These include Anna (underlined with a check)
Meller, (underlined) George Bouhe, (underlined and checked) George de Mohrenschildt, Peter Gregory, (underlined and checked) Mrs. Max (underlined and checked)
Clark, (underlined) and Mrs. Elena Hall. (underlined and checked)
(handwritten and circled on the right side of the page) K. P. (with an arrow to Max)


      Mr. Kleinlerner stated he was very much in love with Mrs. Hall during
1962, who was then divorced from her husband. He recalls that one Sunday
morning which he believes was in September 1962, he was working in Mrs. Hall's
garage at 4760 Trail Lake Drive, Fort Worth, building wooden baffles for
stero speakers, George Bouhe drove up in his automobile with Lee Oswald,
his wife and child. During this approximate 45 minutes visit, Mr. Bouhe
inquired of Mrs. Hall about Marina's dental problems, Mrs. Hall being a
dental technician. Mr. Kleinlerner met the Oswalds on this occasion for
the first time and stated that Lee was almost totally uncommuncative.


      Mrs. Hall was injured in an automobile accident in Fort Worth in 1962
while Marina and the child were residing at her home. Later, after being
released from the hospital and after having spent a few days at home, Mrs.
Hall on October 31, 1962, departed Fort Worth for Garden City, New York, to
visit friends. Mr. Kleinlerner stated that while Mrs. Hall was in the hospi-
tal and in New York, he frequently called on Marina during his lunch period
to determine her needs and her welfare. He stated that the group of friends
with which he was socially acquainted who speak Russian had genuine pity for
Marin and the child, but none of them cared for Lee because of his political
philosophy and lack of interest in anything else. He stated he only saw Lee
Oswald when he accompanied Mrs. Hall to take clothes for Mrs. Oswald or the
child and has the impression that both Lee and Marina were professional bums.
He stated he made remarks to this effect to Mrs. Hall, but Mrs. Hall and other
women in their social group felt that Marina needed help since she was with-
out clothes and the child slept on the floor. He last saw the Oswalds about
the first of November 1962.


       Mr. Kleinlerner stated he saw Lee Oswald on one occasion at 4760 Trail
Lake Drive, Fort Worth, when he visited the address during Mrs. Hall's
absence to determine the needs of Marina and the child. During this visit,
Lee observed that the zipper on his wife's skirt was not completely closed,
and he took her into another room where he hit her a number of times. The
only other time Mr. Kleinlerner saw Lee was on one or two occasions when he
accompanied Mrs. Hall when she took clothing and other articles to Marina and
the child at 2703 Mercedes, Fort Worth.


      He stated Mrs. Hall left Fort Worth October 31, 1962, to visit friends
in New York; that Marina and the chid stayed until November 5 or 12, 1962,
when Marina telephoned him and said they were joining Lee at Dallas. Mr.


(handwritten in right lower corner) CR87 (printed) 613


























































Page 3


Kleinlerner stated Alexa, surname unknown (husband was then a taxi driver
at Dallas) moved Marina and the child. Alexa is believed to be the daughter
of George de Mohrenschildt.


        Mr. Kleinlerner has not seen the Oswalds since they left Fort Worth.
(handwritten and underlined between paragraphs) MRS. DECLAN FORD (a check mark)
(handwritten and circled on the right side of the page) K. P.
   
        On December 7, 1963, accompanied by SA Edward Moore, the reporting agent
personally interviewed Mrs. Katherine Ford (White, female, 37, 5-7 1/2, 135,
dark brown hair, brown eyes) at her residence, 14057 Brookcrest, Dallas, Texas.
Mrs. Ford was born Katherine Evstratova in Novotcherkassk, U.S.S.R., and lived
there until the age of 17, at which time the Germans took her from Russia and
placed her in a concentration camp. Her mother, Maria Evstratova, and some
sisters still reside in this Russian community. Mrs. Ford said she met and 
married an American GI by the name of Stanley Skotnicki, and in 1946 they
came to the United States and settled in his hometown of Dallas. Mrs. Ford
stated that she divorced Stanley Skotnicki in 1960. Mr. Skotnicki lives at
2021 N. Fitzhugh, Dallas, TA 7-2347, and operates a real estate office at
1829 N. Henderson, Dallas. Mrs. Ford became a United States citizen February
1, 1952, while she was still married to Stanley Skotnicki. (underlined and checked)


       Some of the people in this city of Russian exeraction remain in close
contact, and it was through her Russian friends she met the Oswalds. She
said one of her Russian friends, Paul Gregory, (underlined and checked) had met Oswald in the Fort
Worth Library and had asked him and his wife to meet some of the other
Russians living here. Mrs. Ford said she first met the Oswalds at a party
given in the home of Mrs. Anna Meller. Another Russian, George A. Bouhe,
4740 Homer, Dallas, TA 7-2288, thought they should try to help the Oswalds
because Lee was out of a job and the baby needed clothes, a bed, etc. Mrs.
Ford said that of all the Russians who had contact with Marina, George Bouhe
seemed to be closest to her. He had gained her confidence and Marina would
call him about her problems. Bouhe told Mrs. Ford that he had spent about
$50 on things for Marina and the baby. Mrs. Ford said Lee Oswald did not
want gifts and he resented the help everyone gave Marina and the baby. Mrs.
Ford said she always thought Oswald was a "nut" because he seemed to blame
others for his own problems. She stated Oswald was extremely independent.


        Marina had called George Bouhe and said Lee had beaten her and she
wanted to leave him. Apparently someone picked Marina up from their apart-
ment at 602 Elsbeth Street, and took her and the baby to Anna Meller's. It
was later established that Marina took a taxi to Mrs. Meller's home.


       Mrs. Ford recalls Marina came to Anna Meller's home the last week in
October 1962. Mrs. Meller called Mrs. Ford and asked if she could keep
Marina and the baby because the Meller apartment was too small. Mrs. Ford
agreed to keep them and Marina and her daughter arrived at the Ford's the
first week in November and remained one week. At the end of the week, some
other friends, Frank (underlined in red) and Anna Ray, (underlined and checked) took Marina and the baby into their home.


(handwritten in right corner) CR 87 (printed) 613






























































(printed in upper right corner) CO-2-34, 030
Page 4


The same day Marina moved in with the Rays, Lee came to see Marina and
talked her into returning home with him. Mrs. Ford said she did not see the
Oswalds again until Christmas when they came to a party she was giving for
her Russian friends. Mrs. Ford said she never saw either Marina or Lee again
after December 1962. She said she usually heard of the Oswalds movements
through her friends. In the spring of 1963, a friend Lydia Dymitruk told
her Marina said they were moving to New Orleans.


       Lee or Marina never talked about politics in the presence of Mrs. Ford.
She said it was uncommon for politics to be discussed at any of the gather-
ings, but Lee frequently mentioned his life in Russia, and indicated he would
like to return to that country. Mrs. Ford said she and her friends did not
like Lee's preference of Russia over the United States, and George Bouhe had
been to the Oswald apartment and seen several Communist writings. For this
reason her friends decided to stay away from the Oswalds. A Russian by the
name of George de Mohrenschildt continued his companionship with Lee Oswald,
and Mrs. Ford said that George and Lee were quite friendly. Mrs. Ford says
that in her opinion de Mohrenschildt is sympathetic to the Communist belief.
She stated she formed this opinion from de Mohrenschildt's attitude and his
conversations in reference to laws in this country. She said Lee Oswald had
a similar philosophy and this probably accounts for his close relationship
with de Mohrenschildt. Mrs. Ford said de Mohrenschildt had left for Prt
au Prince, Haiti in th esummer of 1963 to visit the President of Haiti. they
are reported to be good friends and de Mohrenschildt is over there looking
for oil on behalf of the President. She said she thought de Mohrenschildt
may have worked for the United States Government at one time.


        When asked if she knew Mrs. Ruth Paine, whom Marina lived with briefly,
Mrs. Ford stated she does not know Ruth Paine personally and the first she
heard of her was when she read Mrs. Paine's name in the newspaper. This was
after the assassination and she called Mrs. Paine in an effort to contact
Marina and offer help to her and the children.


        George de Mohrenschildt is a geologist and is described as follows:
White, male, 45, 6'2", 195, light brown hair, fair complexion, gray or blue
eyes. He has a brother who is a professor of language at Dartmouth College.


        Mr. Samuel Ballen, (underlined and checked) 8715 Midway, Dallas, Texas, friend of George
de Mohrenschildt, was contacted by telephone and he said he last heard from
George de Mohrenschildt about the middle of November and he indicated he
would remain in Haiti. Mr. Ballen furnished the following address for
de Mohrenschildt: c/o U. S. Embassy, Port au Prince, Haiti.


        On December 7, 1963, accompanied by SA Bailey, the reporting agent inter-
viewed George A. Bouhe at his apartmentat 4740 Homer, Dallas, Texas, TA 7-2288.
Mr. Bouhe was born in Russia and came to the United States in 1924. He moved
to Dallas in 1934 and has lived her until the present. Mr. Bouhe is described
as white, male, 69, 5'9", 140, top of head bald with gray sides, wears glasses,
and is a retired accountant.


(handwritten in the lower right corner) CR 87 (printed) 613
































































(printed in upper right corner) CO-2-34, 030
Page 5


     Mr. Bouhe stated that his first contact with the Oswalds was on Satur-
day, August 25, 1962, at a dinner party given at the home of Peter Gregory
in Fort Worth. Present at this party were Mr. and Mrs. Gregory, their son
Paul, Mrs. Anna Meller, and the Oswalds. Paul Gregory picked the Oswalds
up at their apartment and brought them to the party. Mr. Bouhe said he was
interested in the Old Country and that he talked at length with Marina Oswald
about living conditions in Russia. He said he and Marina spoke in their
native tongue of Russian because Marina could not speak English. Mr. Bouhe
said that Lee Oswald was very quite, sultry, and stayed to himself during
most of the evening. When Lee spoke he appeared to be doing so only to be
polite. When Lee entered in the conversation he spoke with favor toward the
Russian way of life, and Mr. Bouhe said that in his opinion Lee Oswald had
once remarked how well he liked the duck hunting in Russia. In previous
reports it has been mentioned that Lee Oswald belonged to a hunt club in
Russia when he lived there.


       Mr. Bouhe said that in his conversations with Lee Harvey Oswald they
never discussed the political situation in either Russia or the United States.
Mr. Bouhe said that after he visited the Oswald apartment and saw Communist
literature he was reluctant to engage in any political discussion with Lee.
Mr. Bouhe said once he got the feeling that Oswald wanted to engage him in
"mental acrobatics," but he avoided any such debate. He explained that oc-
casionally Oswald would ask a question and seemed to wait in anxiety for an
answer so he could argue the point. Bouhe said he never fell for the trap.


      On one visit he said Oswald did not seem to welcome him and as Bouhe
talked with Marina, Lee sat by himself and read Karl Marx writings. Mr.
Bouhe said he visited the Oswalds three weekends on Saturday afternoons in
September and October of 1962. At the time of these visits the Oswalds were
living on Marsalis Street in the Oak Cliff section of Dallas. Mr. Bouhe said
he was always accompanied by a Russian friend on the visits and they would
take things for the baby and Marina. Oswald would have very little to say
during the visits and when he spoke it was with a sarcastic tone of voice.
On the first visit Mr. Bouhe observed that the baby had no bed and slept on
the floor. The next visit Bouhe brought a baby bed, baby clothes, and clothes
for Marina. He purchased these articles himself, and he also bought food
for Marina and the baby. On previous visits he had noticed that the baby was
without milk and there was little food in the house. Mr. Bouhe said his only
motive for the gifts was the satisfaction of helping a mother and baby that
were in genuine need. Oswald was indifferent toward the gifts and left the 
impression he didn't appreciate the consideration.


      Mr. Bouhe said that on one of his brief conversations with Oswald, Lee
spoke with defiance and bitterness because he couldn't get a steady job in
this country. Mr. Bouhe suggested Lee attend a school of his choice and
study in an effort to improve his ability.


(handwritten in lower right corner) CR 87 (printed) 613






































































(printed in top right corner) CO-2034, 030
Page 6


    Mr. Bouhe said his Russian friends became suspicious of the Oswalds
after observing Lee's attitude toward them, and after seeing the Communist
literature he displayed in his apartment. Bouhe said he and his friends
failed to understand how Lee and Marina were able to secure permission to
leave Russia so easily. Bouhe said this fact caused concern mostly among
the Russians who hadn't been away from Communism very long, and they may
have feared the Oswalds were sent here to spy on them. In the interview
with Mrs. Dymitruk, which is set out later in this report, she said they
didn't fear Oswald, but instead they each spent years struggling for their
freedom and they resented associating with an individual who had renounced
his own freedom for Communism.


      Mr. Bouhe said that occasionally Marina would call Mrs. Meller when
she was having trouble with Lee, and Mrs. Meller would call Mr. Bouhe about
Marina's problems. Marina once called Mrs. Meller and told her that Lee had
beaten her up so she had ran off with the baby. She had called from a phone
booth and didn't have any more money, therefore, Mrs. Meller advised Marina
to take a taxi to her apartment and she would pay the fare. Marina went to
Mrs. Meller's and stayed a few days. Mr. Bouhe said Marina then moved to
Mrs. Katherine Ford's and spent one week. Frank and Anna Ray offered to as-
sist the others in keeping Marina and after the week at Fords, Marina was
brought to the Rays to stay. Mr. Bouhe said he moved Marina from Mrs. Meller's
to Mrs. Ford's and Frank Ray took her from Fords to his home.


       Mr. Bouhe stated that he was surprised that Oswald was capable of such
an act as the assassination of President Kennedy. Mr. Bouhe said the only
violence he could associate with Oswald was the many times Oswald allegedly
beat his wife Marina.


       Mr. Bouhe said that he and the majority of his Russian friends had given
up on the Oswalds primarily due to Lee's attitude toward them and his ap-
arent love for Communist literature. Shortly thereafter another Russian
friend, George de Mohrenschildt came to see Bouhe and criticized Bouhe and
the others for deserting the Oswalds. Mr. Bouhe said that de Mohrenschildt
was closer to Oswald than anyone else, and that he talked to Lee more than
others. According to Bouhe, de Mohrenschildt was critical of some United
States laws relating to foreign born citizens and that he was the type that
would have more in common with Oswald than the others. Mr. Bouhe described
de Mohrenschildt as an adventurous sort of person who was rebellious and
loved thrills and exitement. Mr. Bouhe said he thought de Mohrenschildt
found this excitement in Oswald's radical and rebellious attitude.


         Mr. Bouhe said he didn't see the Oswalds again until December 28, 1962,
when he met them at a Christmas party given by Mrs. Katherine Ford at her
home in Dallas. The Oswalds came to the party with the de Mohrenschildts.
Although the rest of the Russian group had stopped seeing the Oswalds, George
de Mohrenschildt continued his friendship with Lee. Mr. Bouhe said he under-
stood that Mrs. Ford did not invite the Oswalds to the Christmas party, but
the de Mohrenschildts brought them as their guests. This was Mr. Bouhe's
last contact with the Oswald family.


(handwritten in the lower right corner) CR87 (printed) 613






























































(printed in the top right corner) CO-2-34, 030
Page 7


      Mr. Bouhe said that in his opinion Lee Harvey Oswald was a rebel
against society in general. He said that from his association with Oswald
he got the impression he was against all rules and regulations of society.
Bouhe said Oswald seemed to think society owed him something for nothing.


     Mr. Bouhe stated that he and his Russian friends had only a charitable
interest in the Oswalds, primarily because Marina is Russian and needed help
for herself and the baby. Mr. Bouhe said it is a common practice for the
people of Russian descent to aid newcomers to this city from their foreign
land.


      On December 9, 1963, accompanied by SA Maurice Miller, the reporting
agent interviewed Mrs. Frank H. Ray at her home 4524, Alta Vista Lane, Dallas,
Texas. Mrs. Ray was born Valentio Anna Perecechnseaya in Vorochilovsk, U.S.S.R.
in 1928, lived there until May 1942, when German soldiers took her to Germany
and she was placed in a concentration camp. After the war was over she not
and married an Army Officer named Henry Bahlkow. They came to the United
States in July 1946, and lived in St. Louis, Missouri. In June 1951, she
divorced Mr. Bahlkow and in June 1954, she married Frank Ray and moved to
Dallas. Mrs. Ray stated that there is a number of Russians living in the
Dallas area, but she only sees them once or twice a year. On these occasions
someone usually gives a dinner or cocktail party for their Russian friends
and her attendance at these events is the extent of her contact with them.
She said her associations with the other Russians was not one of close friend-
ship but more of fellowship.


         In November 1962, a friend of hers, Kitty Ford, called and told her of
the Oswalds and said Marina was staying with her. Marina had been at the
Fords a week and Mrs. Ray offered to take Marina and the child in her home.
Mr. Ray moved Marina from the Fords to his home, and on the same day Lee
Oswald called wanting to come out and visit the baby. Lee later arrived
by bus and visited wth Marina and the child. Marina decided to return to
live with Lee and Mr. Ray moved her belongings to their apartment in Oak
Cliff.


       Lee Oswald talked very little to the Rays during his visit in their home
and the topic of his conversation was limited to talk about the baby. Mrs.
Ray said she discussed the current economic conditions in Russia with Marina,
but not in the presence of Lee. Mrs. Ray said that she did not actually pay
much attention to Lee during his short visit to their home.


         The only other meeting Mrs. Ray had with the Oswalds was about a month
following their visit to her home. At this time, Mrs. ray had collected baby
clothing from her neighbors and took them to the Oswald apartment. Lee
greeted her and thanked her for the clothing but did not extend a warm wel-
come and she only stayed a few minutes. Mrs. Ray said the last time she saw
the Oswalds was at Mrs. Ford's Christmas Party in December 1962, at which time
she only spoke to them briefly. About three months ago, Mrs. Ray said she
gathered more clothing for the Oswald baby and called Mrs. Ford to find out
where the Oswalds were living. Mrs. Ford informed her that she had heard the


(handwritten in the lower right corner) CR87 (printed) 613






























































(printed in top right corner) CO-2-34, 030
Page 8


Oswalds had gone to New Orleans in the Spring and as far as she knew they
were still living there. Mrs. Ray has had no further contact with the Oswalds.


       Mrs. Ray said that her only interest in the Oswalds was to help Marina
and the child.


        On December 9, 1963, accompanied by SA Maurice Miller, I interviewed
Mrs. Lydia Dymitruk, (underlined and checked) described as a white female, 37, 5'5", 120, reddish-
brown hair, blue eyes, resides at 3542 1/2 Kent Street, Fort Worth, Texas, and
works for Neiman-Marcus Department Store in Fort Worth. Mrs. Dymitruk said
she was born in Russia and lived there until 1942 when she was 15 years old.
At that time she was removed to Germany and placed in a concentration camp.
After the war she remained in Europe and moved to Brussels in 1945. In 1957
she married a Russian called Dymituk and they lived in Brussels, Belguim
until 1959 at which time they came to this country and settled in Dallas,
Texas.


      Mrs. Dymitruk said that after living in Dallas a short time, she and her
husband met other people of Russian extraction. She said she became close to
only two of these individuals, George Bouhe and Anna Meller. Mrs. Dymitruk
said that Bouhe had offered to help her learn English when they first met
becasue she could not speak the language. She said Bouhe also helped her
get enrolled in night courses and encouraged and aided her finding work.


        Mrs. Dymitruk said that George Bouhe once told her about Lee Oswald
giving up his citizenship and going to Russia and how he married a Russian
girl and they had returned to Dallas to live. Mr. Bouhe said they wer in
need of help and asked her if she would join other Russians in assisting
them. Mrs. Dymitruk said she told Bouhe that anyone who would give up his
freedom to go to Russia was stupid and did not deserve any help. Mrs.
Dymitruk said she was also suspicious of Oswald because of the fact he went
to Russian, married a Russian girl, and was allowed to leave the country by
Soviet authorities. Mrs. Dymitruk spoke of Oswald as a traitor to freedom,
and she indicated she was scared of him throughout her association with him.
After she informed Bouhe of her feelings, he did not mention the Oswalds to
her again.


      A short time later, Mrs. Dymitruk was visiting Mrs. Anna Meller and Mrs.
Meller told her the Oswalds' small child was sick and Lee would not allow
her to be given medical attention. Mrs. Dymitruk said she decided to offer
to help Marina for the baby's sake and she went to the Oswalds' apartment on
Elsbeth street in Dallas. She said she had never met Marina before that day,
and she did not know which apartment they were in. Therefore, she had to go
to the landlady and ask where the Oswalds lived. She recalled visiting with
the landlady and discussing the Oswalds' problems. at the apartment, Marina
told her Lee would not allow the baby to be take to the doctor but since he
was at work they would go ahead due to the baby's condition. An appointment
could not be arranged until 6:00 P.M., and that afternoon Lee Oswald came
home. When told they were taking the baby to the doctor, he became extreme-
ly mad. Lee shouted that he would take care of his own baby and he and


(handwritten in lower right corner) CR87 (printed) 613




























































(printed in the upper right corner) CO-2-34, 030
Page 9


Marina had a loud and heated argument about the care of the child. Marina
threatened to leave if he did not allow the baby to be examined by the doctor,
so Lee finally consented and they went together to Parkland Hospital.


     At the hospital the receptionist asked Lee to answer questions for the
admission application. Mrs. Dymitruk said Oswald reluctantly answered the
questions, and he lied that he was unemployed. Marina, speaking in Russian,
scorned him for lying and asked him to tell the truth. According to Mrs.
Dymitruk, Lee became very loud and argued at Marina and he told her he lied
because he did not intend to pay for anything.


      Mrs. Dymitruk stated she did not see the Oswalds again until the Spring
of 1963, when she met Marina and another lady in a Fort Worth store. Marina
told her she was leaving right away for New Orleans where her husband had
obtained work. She has never seen Marina or Lee Oswald again.


      Mrs. Dymitruk said she only met Lee Oswald the one time and they had
very little to say to each other. She described Oswald as hateful and cruel
for neglecting the baby. Mrs. Dymitruk said she seldom sees the other Russians
in Dallas and her relationship with them is not a close one.


      In December 11, 1963, with SA Roger Warner, I interviewed Mrs. Anna
Meller, maiden name Golgorukowa, at her home 5930 1/2 LaVista Drive, Dallas, Texas.
She is described as a white female, 46, 5-7, 140, brown hair. Her husband is
named Teofil and works for Sanger-Harris Department Store in Dallas. Mrs.
Meller said she was born in Russia and lived there until she was taken out
by the Germans in World War II. Mrs. Meller remained in Germany and married
her husband in 1952, and they came to the United States as refugees that same
year. Shortly after arriving in Dallas, they met George Bouhe and he helped
them get accustomed to the American way of life. They have known George Bouhe
as a close friend for about 12 years.


       Mrs. Meller said she first met the Oswalds at a dinner party given by
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Gregory at their home in Fort Worth in August of 1962. She
later went with George Bouhe to visit the Oswalds at their apartment in Dallas
and while there they noticed the baby was undernourished and was sleeping on
the floor. At the time, Lee Oswald was out of work and she and Mr. Bouhe de-
cided they would assist the Oswalds in getting started. Mrs. Meller said she
became suspicious of the Oswalds after she learned Lee had defected to Russia
and then returned with a Russian wife to this counrty, and on her first visit
to the Oswald apartment she observed Communist writings of Karl Marx. Mrs.
Meller said she was scared to get involved with the Oswalds, but one of her
friends said that the FBI must have checked Lee before allowing them to re-
enter this country. Not being familiar with FBI procedures, Mrs. Meller said
she assumed the Oswalds had been cleared and were all right. During September
and October 1962, Mrs. Meller said she visited the Oswalds several times,
usually with Mr. Bouhe, and occasionally would take them food and clothes for
the baby. She said her only concern was fro the need of Marina and the baby.


(handwritten in lower right corner) CR87 (printed) 613


































































(printed in top right corner) CO-2-34, 030
Page 10


      Late one night in October 1962, Marina called Mrs. Meller and said Lee
had beat her and she wanted to come and stay with Mrs. Meller. Marina was
calling from a service station and she didn't have any money, so Mrs. Meller
said she told her to take a taxi to her place and she would pay the fare.
Marina came to the Mellers on Monday and stayed until Friday night, at which
time Mrs. Meller had arranged for another Russian, Katherine Ford, to pick
her up and keep her for awhile. This was the last time she saw either of
the Oswalds until a Christmas party at Katherine Ford's in December 1962.
She never saw the Oswalds again after the Christmas party.


        Mrs. Meller said that in all her visits with the Oswalds she had very
little conversation with Lee. She recalled at the Gregory party, Lee Oswald
was very reluctant to talk with anyone. She said he would wander off to a
corner by himself and seemed to neglect the others present. Mrs. Meller said
she formed the opinion that Lee Oswald was abnormal because of the way he
acted toward the people who tried to befriend him. She said that in all her
meetings with the Oswalds, Lee talked only about general topics.


        Mr. Meller said that she was not well acquainted with George de Mohren-
schildt, but that she had been at several gatherings which he attended. This
was usually a party at one of her Russian friends home. Mrs. Meller was re-
luctant to talk about de Mohrenschildt, but she described him as a "strange"
man without principles. She thought de Mohrenschildt spent more time with
the Oswalds than anyone else.


      Mrs. Meller emphasized that her only interest in the Oswalds was the ex-
tend the same kind of hospitality she recieved upon arriving in this country
as a stranger in need of assistance.


WNC: amr


(handwritten in bottom right corner) CR87 (printed) 613
















(handwritten and circled in the top left corner) 3
(printed center of page) February 13, 1964
(printed in right corner) Oswald, Lee H. Post-Russian Period (handwritten) 7
(printed in right corner)  Oswald, Marina (handwritten) 10


Captain W. P. Gannaway
Special Service Bureau
Dallas Police Department


Thru:
Lieutenant Jack Revill
Criminal Intelligence Section
Dallas Police Department


SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE (6)
(underlined and circled in red and black) FRANK H. RAY (handwritten) KP


Sir:


     Pursuant to the instructions of Captain W. P. Gannaway,
SUBJECT was interviewed by the undersigned officers and the
following report submitted.


      SUBJECT resides at 4524 Alta Vista Lane (address underlined) with his wife,
ANNA, who is Russian born. Their telephone number is FL1-0902. (number underlined)
The name of SUBJECT'S business is POLLOCK-RAY SALES PROMOTION
CO., which is located at 3508 Dickason, LA 1-3020. (Address and number underlined)


      SUBJECT stated that he and his wife met LEE HARVEY and 
MARINA OSWALD at the residence of DECLAN FORD on or about
August 25, 1962. He next saw MARINA when she and her baby were
brought to his home on November 17, 1962, by FORD. She was to
stay with him and his wife for a few days because of domestic
troubles she was having with LEE HARVEY. On November 18, 1962,
OSWALD telephoned MARINA and asked to see her, to which she
agreed. A short time later, SUBJECT picked OSWALD up at a bus
stop. Since this occurred quite some time ago, SUBJECT is not
sure, but he feels as though there was some one with him when
he went to get OSWALD. However, he could not remember who it
might have been. OSWALD was able to effect a reconciliation
with MARINA, so SUBJECT took them to 602 Elsbeth, (address underlined) where he
felt they had been living.


(handwritten in left corner) CR 950
(in a stamped square) INDEXED
DATE (handwritten) 2-17-64
INITIALS (handwritten) S
(then there is some writing that is un legible)












































































Page 2. FRANK H. RAY, February 13, 1964.


           SUBJECT stated that OSWALD had some funny ideas about
life. OSWALD seemed to feel that the world owed him something
and that it was unfair for someone to have more than him.
SUBJECT also said that he did not know JACK RUBY, nor did he
know of any relationship between OSWALD and RUBY.


                                     Respectfully submitted,
                                      (signature)
                                     F. A. Hellinghausen, Detective
                                     Criminal Intelligence Section
                                      (signature)
                                     P. M. Parks, Detective
                                     Criminal Intelligence Section


(in a printed square stamp) INDEXED
(printed in stamp) DATE (handwritten) 2-17-64
(printed in stamp) INITIALS (handwritten) S


(printed) INT (handwritten) 25 - 63A 2965-400