HUEY MOSES REEVES https://catalog.archives.gov/id/7461017/
 
FD-302 (Rev. 3-3 59)
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Ruby, Jack
Date December 18, 1963
 
1.
HUEY REEVES, 2903 Reynolds, Night Manager, Nichols Garage, Commerce Street, Dallas, Texas,  was interviewed for any information he might be able to furnish regarding arrangement for a financial loan made by JACK RUBY for a stripper from the Carousel Club.
REEVES furnished the following information:
On Saturday evening, November 23, 1963, at approximately 7:30 p.m., a stripper from JACK RUBY’s Carousel Club, which is located adjacent to Nichols Garage, appeared at the garage and asked to use the telephone. Shortly thereafter, REEVES received a telephone call from JACK RUBY who was at home at his apartment. RUBY told REEVES that one of his strippers from the club had just called him and was in need of some money. RUBY requested REEVES to give the girl $5 and to get a receipt from her. RUBY advised REEVES that he, RUBY, would be at the garage later that evening to repay REEVES the $5 loan. REEVES complied with RUBY’s request and gave the girl $5 and in turn received a receipt from her.
Approximately 30-45 minutes later that evening, JACK RUBY appeared in Nichols Garage and repaid REEVES the $5.
REEVES has been employed as night manager of Nichols Garage for approximately one year.  He became acquainted with RUBY at the start of his employment as RUBY for many years has parked his personal car at Nichols Garage. REEVES described RUBY as a good-hearted man who always seemed friendly and cheerful. RUBY, after closing his Carousel Club after midnight, periodically would bring REEVES a cup of coffee when RUBY came to the garage to get his car. On some nights when RUBY came to pick up his car he would have one of his strippers from the Carousel Club with him. Many times, RUBY would come to pick up his car and would be alone.
REEVES did not know LEE HARVEY OSWALD. Upon viewing a photograph of OSWALD, REEVES was positive that he had never seen OSWALD in the company of JACK RUBY.
 
143
On 12/17/63 at Dallas, Texas File # CR 105 Dallas 44-1639
by Special Agent JAMES S. WEIR:BL Date dictated 12/18/63
This documents contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside of your agency.


PAGE 3


Handwritten: HP
Handwritten: Reeves, Huey
MEMORANDUM
March 18, 1964
TO: Mr. Howard Willens
FROM: Leon D. Hubert
Burt W. Griffin
1.           Starting at the latest on Tuesday, March 24th, we propose to take the depositions of certain officers of the Dallas Police Department named on sheet attached. These are not listed in the order in which we will take the depositions; and it may be that we will not depose some of them, but merely take their affidavits; or perhaps do neither. In any case we request that letters of authority in accordance with the rules of the Commission be issued authorizing each of us to take depositions of affidavits of the police officers named on the attached sheet.
2.           It may be that we will require the production for examination of documents in possession of the Police Department. Specifically, these would be:
a.           All affidavits taken by the Police Department of police officers.
b.          All pictures in the possession of the Police Department.
c.           All item of property taken from Ruby’s person, his automobile, his home and his club.
3.           We think that the above will require three to four days i.e. March 24-27. Commencing on March 30 we propose to take depositions of affidavits from those persons involved in the movement of Ruby on November 24, 1964. There witnesses are:
a.           Doyle Lane, c/o Western Union, Commerce & Pearl, Dallas.
b.           J.E. Strong c/o Western Union, Main Branch, Fort Worth
c.           W.W. Seminger, Vice-President, Western Union, Dallas, to produce all records and documents relative to money order telegram in the sum of $25.00 from Jack Ruby to Karen Bennet Carlin on November 24. 1963; this should specify that we want the records of the Fort Worth office as well as the Dallas office. (Semingen had control over both offices.)


PAGE 4


d.          Sidney Evans, 2205 Marvel Street, Dallas
e.          Huey Reeves, 2903 Reynolds, or c/o Nichol’s Garage, Commerce Street
f.            Elnora Pitts, 1316 East Jefferson, Dallas
g.           James Turner, 6337 Norma Street, Fort Worth or c/o WBAP-TV, Fort Worth.
h.          O’ Neal Funeral Home, Dallas, to provide record of logged call for ambulance received about 11:21 A.M. November 24, 1963; and driver or ambulance who received call.
i.             Frederick A. Beiberdorf, 8603 Midway Road or c/o S.W. Medical School, University of Texas.
4. We propose to bring before the Commission as witnesses on or about April 6 or such other dates as may be decided upon, the following persons:
a. Ralph Paul, c/o the Bull Pen, Arlington, Texas or 1936 E. Abrams, Arlington, Texas.
b. George Senator (address unknown; but obtainable by FBI or Dallas Police, or Dallas D. A.)
c.  Andrew Armstrong, Apt. C, 3821 Dickinson Circle, or c/o Big D, 13122 Commerce Street; together with a subpoena duces team (or request) for the following documents in his possession:
1) A letter addressed “Dear Gail” written on “Jack Ruby Associates” stationery believed to be written by Laverne (Larry) Crafard.
2) A letter received at the Carousel Club addressed to Curtis L. Crafard, with a return address “Gail Box. 303, Harrison, Michigan”
d) Curtis L. (Larry) Crafard, (address to be obtained from FBI with which Crafard is supposed to be in contact)
e) Karen B. Carlin (Ms. Bruce Carlin) 3809 Meadowbrook, Fort Worth.
f) Bruce Carlin, 3809 Meadowbrook, Fort Worth
g) Lewis J. McWillie, 3627 Eastern Ave., Las Vegas, Nevada, or c/o Thunderbird Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada.
-2-


PAGE 5


h) Seth Kanfor, c/o Washington Daily News, 1013- 13th Street N.W., Washington, D.C.
i) Patrolman R. E. Vaughn, Dallas Police Department
j) N.J. Daniels, 2229 Sutter Street, Dallas.
5. We propose to travel to Dallas on Saturday afternoon: on Sunday we would like to visit the various places involved and to that end we will need transportation. On Sunday or Monday, we wish to examine all Ruby papers etc., taken from him by Dallas Police officers; the other documents and pictures in possession of the Dallas Police Department; such as the radio log sheet and others described in par. 2 hereof.
 
Attach.
 
Hubert/jv/3-18-64
CC: Hubert chron file
Mr. Rankin
Mr. Shaffer
-3-


PAGE 6


Records of the John F.. Kennedy Assassination Collection: Key Persons Files\
Handwritten: KP 
Reeves, Huey


March 20 1964


 
Mr. Huey Reeves
3703 Reynolds
Dallas, Texas
 
Dear Mr. Reeves:
 
                As you know, this Commission was established by President Johnson on November 29, 1963, to investigate and report upon the facts and circumstances relating to the assassination of our late President John F. Kennedy, and the subsequent killing of the alleged assain, Lee Harvey Oswald. Enclosed for your information are copies of Executive Order No. 1130 creating this Commission Senate Resolution 137 and the Rules of Procedure of this Commission for the taking of testimony.
 
                Mr. Leon D. Hubert Jr., and Mr. Burt W. Griffin both members of the Advisory Staff of the President’s Commission have been authorized by the Commission to take your deposition or an affidavit from you at the office of the United States Attorney, Dallas, Texas, on some fay between March 27 and April 3, 1964. Either Mr. Hubert or Mr. Griffin will communicate with you further by telephone or otherwise to set up a precise time to serve your convenience as far as possible. The general subject matter of the deposition or affidavit will be to inquire about what facts you may know concerning the assassination of Lee H. Oswald, and the connection of Jack Ruby with this event.
                It would be helpful if upon receipt of this letter you would contact Mr. Hubert or Mr. Griffin by calling them by telephone at the office of the U.S. Attorney, Dallas, Texas, some time during the week of March 24-27.
                The Commission is authorized to pay your transportation and living expense incurred as a result of this appearance before Mr. Hubert and Mr. Griffin. If you desire assistance in making these arrangements, please feel free to contact Mr. Forrest V. Sorwels.
 
PAGE 7


Chief of the Dallas office of the Secret Service, who is located at Room 800, Reliance Life Building, at 505 Ervay Street, Dallas. His telephone number is Riverside 1-3461, extension 1601.
 
Thank you for your cooperation in the work of the Commission.
Sincerely,
J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel
 
Encls.
 
Copy: c/o Hiechel’s Garage
Commerce Street
Dallas, Texas
 
Hubert/jv/3-19-64
CC: Hubert chron file
Mr. Rankin
Mr. Willens
-2-


PAGE 8
 
Records of John F. Kennedy Assassination Collection: Key Persons File
Handwritten: KP
Reeves, Huey INV 5
 
MAR 20 1964
 
MEMORANDUM
 
TO: Mr. Leon D. Hubert Jr,
Mr. Burt W. Griffin
 
FROM: Je. Les Hankin
General Counsel
 
                Acting under the authority of paragraphs I.S. AND II.A. of the Resolution of the President’s Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy, relative to the questioning of witnesses by members of the Commission’s Staff, I hereby designate the following persons from whom you may take sworn dispositions or sworn affidavits:
 
Fredrick A. Beiberdorf
John J. Daniel
Sidney Evans
 Theodore Jackson
Doyle Lens
Louis McKinsie
Dot. D.R. Archer
Res. Officer C.O. Arnett
Asst. Chief, Charles Batcheler
Dor. H.L. Benttey
Dot. H.H. Beck
Pin. Alvin R. Brock
Pen. T.R. Burton
Dot. Billy H. Combest
Dot. Vernon C. Campbell
Mechanic Geo. T. Chabot
Dot. B.S. Clardy
Dot. Richard L. Clark
Lt. F. I. Corwell
Res. Officer Kenneth H. Croy
Chief J.E. Curry
 Bet. W. J. Cutshaw
 
Elenora Pitts
Huey Reeves
W.W. Somingen
J. E. Strong
James Turner
General Manager, O’ Neal
                Funeral Homes or proper representative
Sgt. P.T. Dean
Sheriff J.E. Decker
Lt. A.M. Eberhardt
Dep. Chief Fisher
Cpt. W. F. Frasier 
Cpt. J. W. Frits
Dat. L. C. Graces
Aux. Pol. O. W. Harrison
Ptn. W. J. Harrison
Ptn W.T. Harrison
Ptn. Warren Z. Hibbs
Res. Officer H.B. Holly
Cpt. C. A. Jones
Res. Officer H.M. Krise
Det. J.R. Leayelle
Det. R.L. Lowery
 
PAGE 9
 
Records of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Collection: Key Person Files
 
Dep. Chief G. L. Buskin
Cpt. F.M. Martin
Sgt. B. J. Maxey
Rec. Officer L.
Lt. Barney Merre
Det. L.d. Miller
Det. L.D. Mentg
Lt. Dan
Det.
Det. T. W.
Res. Officer W.J.
Lt. H.S. Pierce
Sgt. J.A. Putmang
Lt. Jack Revill
Ptn. Willie B.
Lt. V.S. Sert
Sgt. D.F. Steele
Dep. Chief W.W. Stevenson
Cpt. C. E. Talbort
Det. J.C. Watson
Lt. Woodrow Wiggins
Res. Officer C.E. Worley
Radio dispatchers on duty, Dallas Police Department
Between 10 A.M. and 4 P.M., November 24, 1963.
 
Ptn. Thomas Gregory
Spt. Salesmon
Charlotte Mcvell
Leonard E. Jes
M. Kemp
Glen D. King
Carol G. Lewis
Chief R.H.
Duane J. McGingth
Robert E. McKinsey
Ronald C. Nelson
James K. RNASEY
Bobby Care Patterson
Johnie F. Newton
Baron Reynolds
 
Hubert/jv/3-20-64
CC: Hubert chron file
Mr. Rankin
Mr. Willens
-2-
 
PAGE 10
March 26, 1964
 
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. J. LES RANKIN, General Counsel
FROM: Howard P. Willens
RE: Daily Report from Dallas
Thursday, March 26, 1964
 
 
Mr. Hubert called this evening and stated that depositions were taken last evening from Reserve Officer C.o. Arnett, Detective D.R. Archer, Sgt. B.J. Maxey, and Reserve Officer W.J. Newman. The Newman depositions went on until half past one last night and again this afternoon (Thursday) from 4 to 4:45 p.m.
 
During the day the following depositions were taken by the designated members of the staff:
 
Witness                Staff Member
Det. B.H; Conbest…… Messrs. Hubert L. Griffin
Det. B.L. Benty…….. “
Det. J.C. Watson
Det. W.J. Cutshew
Capt. Solomon
Res. Officer W.J. Newman
Mr. & Mr. Igor Vladimer Voskin Mr. Jenner
 
Mr. Hubert proposes for tonight the despotions of six Reserve Officers- H.D. Holly, H.M. Kriss, R.L. Mayo, C.E. Worley, K.H. Croy and A.R. Brock. For tomorrow, Friday, March 27th, plans call for depositions for Huey Reeves and Police Department radio dispatchers Francis Cason and J. Jackson Murray.
Mr. Hubert also informed me that he had received information from Dean Storey to the effect that the reporter in the Ruby trial has not yet begun preparing the transcript. Apparently Ruby has filled a pamper’s oath and the reporter is uncertain as to whther he will be compensated for his work. The State of Texas will pay in the event Ruby’s pauper’s oath is rejected.  Dean Storey
 
PAGE 11
 
2
will be here Monday, March 30, on his way to Europe for 4 weeks. I think we should try to persuade the Texas officials to instruct the reporter to begin work as soon as possible.
 
I asked Mr. Hubert to ask Mr. Griffin to prepare a memorandum regarding his disposition of Detective Dean. Mr. Griffin is in Fort Worh and will be back in Washington on Saturday. United States Attorney Sanders talked with District Attorney Wade and feels that this difficulty has been smoothed over. The United States Attorney agreed with Wade that, if this conduct took place, it was unaccountable to the Commission. 
 
I informed United States Attorney Senders regarding the agreement reached today between you and Attorney General Carr as to the availability of the transcript in Dallas. Mr. Sanders informed me that he was prepared to keep one copy of all the deposition transcripts in his office and permit Carr’s representative to need them there. According to Mr. Sanders, Mr. Specter has already left Dallas with two copies of the transcript of a few depositions, co that arrangements will have to be made to return one of these to Mr. Sanders.
 
PAGE 11
KP
Reeves, Huey
 
JLR: HPW: al
3/25/64
 
MAR 26 1964
 
Mr. Walter W. Craig
President, American Bar Association
1120 Connecticut Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20035
 
Dear Mr. Craig:
 
As I mentioned to you during our meeting last Monday, members of the Commission staff are currently in Dallas taking the depositions of the various witnesses. I wish to confirm my invitation to you or your representative to participate during the taking of these depositions in the same manner in which you are currently taking part in the presentation of evidence before the Commission.
 
So that you are fully informed regarding the names of the witnesses currently being deposed, I am attaching to this letter a list of witnesses whose depositions have been authorized. The first column sets forth the witnesses to be disposed this week by Mr. Spector, primarily doctors and other personnel of Parkland Hospital. The second column sets forth the names of witnesses to be handled by Meoars. Hubert and Griffin of the Commission staff, including officials of the Dallas Police Department and the Sheriff’s offices at Dallas, who will be interrogated regarding the handling of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. The third column lists the witnesses to be handled by Mesars. Jehner and Mebeler and includes persons of the Dallas community familiar with certain of Oswald’s activities in the month preceding the assassination. These members of the staff are under instructions to take these depositions as expeditiously as can be arranged.
I anticipate that the processes of taking depositions in Dallas will be last through approximately Friday, April 10th. Next week Mr. Hubert will remain in Dallas to interrogate witnesses.
 
Cc: Mr. Rankin
Mr. Willens  
 
PAGE 13
 
associated with Jack Ruby and his activities prior to the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. Depositions will also be taken next week and the following week by Hesars. Ball and Belin of the Commission staff. These attorneys will be interrogating additional witnesses from the Dallas Police Department concerned with the investigation of the assassination and various other Dallas witnesses with information to supply regarding Lee Harvey Oswald’s involvement in the assassination. When I have authorized the depositions of the specific witnesses in the area, I shall supply you with a list of names.
 
I hope that these arrangements meet with your approval.
 
Sincerely,
SIGNED
J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel
 
Attachment.
 
PAGE 14
 
Mr. Spector
 
Dr. William Hemp Clark
Dr. Charles R. Bexter
Dr. Rober N. McClelland
Dr. N.T. Jenkins
Dr. Jackie. H. Hunt
Dr. Paul Peters
Dr. Rober Shor
Dr. George Thomas Shires
Miss Janette Standridge
Mr. R. J. Jinkison
Miss Henrietta Rossa
Dr. Frank A. Bachour
Dr. Ronald C. Jones
Dr. A.H. Giesecks, Jr.
Dr. Gene Akin
Dr. Don Curtis
Dr. Charles Gregory
Custodian of Recods,
Parkland Hospital
Miss Jane Webster
Mr. Darrell C. Tomlinson
Miss Jean Hill
Dr. Crenshar
Dr. Salyer
Dr. Seldin
Miss Doris Nelson
Miss Dianne Bowron
Margaret Hinchiffe
Mr. Price
 
Nessers. Hubert S. Griffin
 
Frederick A. Beiberdorf
John J. Daniel
Sidney Evans
Theodore Jackson
Doyle Lande
Louis McKinsie
Eleanora Pitts
Huey Reeves
W.W. Semingen
J.E. Strong
Janen Turner
General Nanager, O’Neal Funeral Home, or proper representative
Det. D.H. Archer
Res. Officer C.G. Arnett
Asst. Ch. Cahrles Batchelor
Det. B.L. Beattey
Det. H.R. Beck
Ptn. Alvin R. Breck
Ptn. T.R. Burton
Dot. Billy H. Canbest
Dot. Vernon C. Campbell
Morchamic Geo. T. Chabot
Det. B.S. Clardy
Det. Richard I. Clark
Lt. F.I. Cornwall
Res. Offi. Kemmeth H. Crey
Chief J.E. Curry
Det. W.J. Cutshaw
Sgt. P.T. Dean
Sheriff J.E. Decker
Lt. A.W. Ebernett
Dep. Cluter Fisher
Dept. W.F. Frasier
Capt. J.W. Frits
Bet. L.C. Craves
Aux. Pol. C.W. Harrison
Det. W.T. Harrison
Ptn. Warren E. Hibbs
Res. Off. H.B. Holly
Capt. O.A. Jones
Res. Off. H.M. Krias
Det. J.R. Leavalle
Det. R.L. Lowery
 
Nessrs. Jenner & Liebeler
Goerge Boushe
Elena Hall
Anna Heller
Gary Taylor
Elye Nannstov
Everett Glover
Mr. & Mrs. Thomas Ray
Mrs. Declan F. Ford
Vollever Schmidt
Sermanl B. Ballen
Dorothy Gravitis
Paul Gregory
Frank KrystinIK
Lydia Dymitruk
Mrs. M. Hledsoe
Mr. & Mr. A.C. Johnson
Dr. Somer Woods
Mr. & Mrs. Fred (or Floyd) Davis
Mr. Kenneth Lougley
Leonard Ehrin Hutchinaon
Robert L. Stovall
Dennis H. Ofstein
John Grnef
Hiram L. Conrey
Tommy Dargas
Roy Truly
W.W. Semingeon
Cliff Roberts
Hobert Taylor
C.E. Smith
Dial D. Ryder
Michael R. Paine
Ruth H. Paine
Steling Charlee Wood
Pauline Virginia Bates
W.F. Tobias
Chester Allen Biggs, Jr. Max E. Clark
Mrs. Frank Henry Ray
Mr. & Mrs. Igor Voshinin
 
PAGE 15
Records of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Collection: Key Persons Files
2
 
Measers. Hubert & Griffin (Continued)
 
Dep. Ch. G. L. Larpkin
Capt. F.M. Martin
Sgt. B.J. Marney
Ros. Off. L. w. Keyo
Lt. Barrey Merrel
Det. L.D. Miller
Det. L.D. Montgomery
Lt. Ben McCoy
Det. Romer Joe McGor
Det. T.D. McHillen
Res. Off. W.J. Rewson
Id. R.S. Piece
Sgt. J.A. Putman
Lt. Jack Revill
Ptn. Willie B. Slack
Lt. V.S. Stuart
Sgt. D.F. Steels
Dep. Ch. W.W. Stevenson
Dept. C.E. Talbert
Det. J.C.. Watson
Lt. Woodrow Wiggins
Res. Off. G.E. Worley
Radio dispatchers on duty,
Dallas Police Department
Between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., November 24, 1963
Ptn. Thores Gregorey
Capt. Solomon
Charlotte Hewell
Ptn. Leonard E. Jez
George W. Kemp
Capt. Glen D. King
Ptn. Carroll G. Lewis
Dep. Ch. R.H. Luendey
Ptn/ Duene J. McGrath
Lt. Robert E. McKinney
Ptn. Ronald C. Nelson
Det. James. K. Rensley
Ptn. Bobby Gene Patterson
Clark, Johnie F. Newton
Det. H. Baron Reynolds