
This examination has been made with the understanding that the evidence is connected with an official investigation of a criminal matter and that the Laboratory report will be used for official purposes only, related to the investigation or a subsequent criminal prosecution.  Authorization cannot be granted for the uses of the Laboratory report in connection with a civil proceeding.


Re: Assassination of President John F. Kennedy


John Edgar Hoover, Director

Examination requested by: Addressee
Reference: See below
Examination requested: Firearms - Spectrographic - Microscopic Analyses - Fingerprint - Document


Speciments:


Evidence received from Special Agent Elmer L. Todd, Washington Field Office of the FBI on 11.22.63:

Q1 Bullet from stretcher


Evidence received from Special Agent Orin Bartlett of the FBI on 11.22.63:


Q2 Bullet fragment from the front seat cushion
Q3 Bullet fragment from beside front seat

Evidence received from Special Agent James W. Sibert and Special Agent Francis O’Neill, Jr., of the Baltimore Office of the FBI on 11/23/63:


Q4 Metal fragment from the President’s head
Q5 Metal fragment from the President’s head


Evidence received from Special Agent Vincent E. Drain of the Dallas Office of FBI on 11/23/63:


Q6 6.5 millimeter Manlicher-Carcano cartridge case from building
Q7 6.5 millimeter Manlicher-Carcano cartridge case from building
Q8 6.5 millimeter Manlicher-Carcano cartridge from rifle
Q9 Metal fragment from arm of Governor John Connolly
Q10 Wrapping paper in shape of a large bag
Q11 Suspect’s shirt
Q12 Blanket
Q13 Bullet from Officer Tippett


K1 6.5 millimeter Manlicher-Carcano rifle, with telescope sight, Serial No. C2766
K2 Paper and tape sample from shipping department, Texas Public School Book Depository
K3 .38 Special Smith and Wesson revolver, Serial No. V510210, Assembly No. 65248


Evidence obtained by FBI Laboratory personnel during examination of the President’s limousine:


Q14 Three metal fragments recovered from read floor board carpet
Q15 Scraping from inside surface of windshield


Also Submitted: Photograph of rifle, Kl
Finger and palm prints of Lee Harvey Oswald


Results of examination:
The bullet, Q1, is a 6.5 millimeter Mannlicher-Carcano rifle bullet.  Specimen Q1 weights 158.6 grains.  It consists of a copper alloy jacket with a lead core.

Specimen Q2 is a portion of the core of a rifle bullet.  Specimen Q2 weighs 44.6 grains and is composed of a portion of the copper alloy jacket and a portion of the lead core.  Specimen Q3 is a portion of the base section of a copper alloy rifle bullet. Q3 weights 21.0 grains and is composed of a section of the jacket from which the lead core is missing.  It could not be determined whether specimens Q2 and Q3 are portions of the same bullet or are portions of two separate bullets.


The rifle, K1, is a 6.5 millimeter Mannlicher-Carcano Italian military rifle Model 91/38.  Test bullets were fired from this rifle for comparison with specimens Q1, Q2 and Q3.  As a result, Q1, Q2 and Q3 were identified as having been fired from the submitted rifles.


Specimens Q6 and Q7 are 6.5 millimeter Mannlicher-Carcano cartridge cases.  They were manufactured by the Western Cartridge Company, East Alton, Illinois, as was 6.5 millimeter Mannlicher-Carcano cartridge, Q8.


Test cartridge cases obtained from the submitted rifler were compared with specimens Q6 and Q7.  As a result, specimens Q6 and Q7 were identified as having been fired in this rifle.  The bullet, Q13, from Officer Tippett, is a .38 Special copper-coated lead bullet.  Q13 weighs 156.6 grains and posses the physical characteristics of 158 grain Western-Winchester revolver bullets.  The surface of Q13 is so badly mutilated that there are not sufficient individual microscope characteristics present for identification purposes.  It was determined, however, that the .38 Special Smith and Wesson revolver, K3, is among those weapons which produced general rifling impressions of the type found on Q13.


The lead metal of Q4 and Q5, Q9, Q14 and Q15 is similar to the lead of the core of the bullet fragment, Q2.


A small tuft of textile fibers was found adhering to a jagged area on the left side of the metal butt plate on the K1 gun.  Included in this tuft of fibers were gray-black, dark blue and orange-yellow cotton fibers which match in microscopic characteristics the gray-black, dark blue and orange-yellow cotton fibers composing the Q11 shirt of the suspect.  These fibers could have originated from this shirt.
