Mary and I were wanting to take some pictures of the President so we purposely tried to find a place that was open with no people was around and we had been standing half way down toward the underpass on Elm Street on the south side. We were the only people in that area and were standing right at the curb. The President’s car came around the corner and it was over on our side of the street. Just as Mary Moorman started to take a picture we were looking at the president and Jackie in the back seat and they looking at a little dog between them. Just as the president looked up towards us two shots rang out and I saw the President grab his chest and fall forward across Jackie’s lap and she fell across his back and said “My god he has been shot”. There was an instant pause between the first two shots and the motorcade seemingly halted for an instant and three or four more shots rang out and the motorcade sped away. I thought I saw some men in plain clothes shooting back but everything was such a blur and Mary was pulling on my leg saying “Get down they are shooting”. I looked across the street and up the hill and saw a man running toward the monument and I started running over there. By the time I got up to the railroad tracks some policemen that I suppose were in the motor cade or near by had also arrived and was turning up back and as I came back down the hill Mr. Featherstone of the Times Herald had gotten to Mary and ask her for her picture she had taken of the president, and he brought us to the press room down at the Sheriff’s office and ask to stay.

JEAN HILL, 9402 Bluff Creek, telephone EV 1-7419, stated that she on November 22, 1963 was standing on Elm Street in "the vicinity of Texas School Book Depository observing the Presidentlal Party composed of the President of the United States, his wife, and. Governor CONNALLY of Texas pass: and accompanying her was MARY MOORMAN, residing 2832 Ripplewood, telephone DA 1-9390, who with a camera took pictures of the Presidential Party passing down the street.


JEAN HILL advised she heard something like a rifle shot and observed President KENNEDY crumple in his seat in the auto-mobile. She was standing nearby, as the vehicle was passing the spot where she stood at the time.
        In an interview on March 13, 1964, by Special Agents E.J. ROBERTSON and THOMAS T. TRETTIS, JR., Mrs. JEAN LOLLIS HILL stated that after President KENNEDY was shot on November 11, 1963, and after the shooting stopped, she recalled it was then that she noticed a white man wearing a brown raincoat and a hat running west away from the Texas School Book Depository Building in the direction of the railroad tracks. The following investigation was conducted at Dallas, Texas, by Special Agent ROBERTSON in an attempt to establish the identity of this person.


        On March 27, 1964, a review of the newspaper clippings of the November 22, 1963 issue of the “Dallas Times Herald”, Dallas, Texas, disclosed the following information: Patrolman W.E. PARKER saw workers in the Texas School Book Depository Building pecking on a window from the third floor and pointing to a man wearing horn-rimmed glasses, a plaid coat and raincoat.


        On April 1, 1964, Patrolman W. E. BARKER, Dallas Police Department advised that the newspaper article was in error as to the location of the people tapping on the window in an attempt to attract his attention to a man standing on Elm Street shortly after the assassination of President KENNEDY. Patrolman BARKER stated the people were in the warehouse east of the Texas School Book Depository Building and the man was standing south of this building on Elm Street between the warehouse and the Dallas County Office Building. He stated the man was taken to the Dallas County Sheriff's Office for questioning and released inasmuch as no basis for any allegations against this person was ever established. He further stated that the man was taken to the Sheriff’s Office some fifteen minutes after the president was shot and could not have possibly been the person observed by JEAN LOLLIS HILL because of the time lag and the fact the man was not wearing and did not posses a hat.


        On March 30, 1964, Captain P. W. LAWRENCE, Dallas Police Department, advised that a review of his file fails to disclose any information that woud assist in identifying a man waerinf a brown raincoat and hat observed running west away from the Texas School Book Depository Building on November 22, 1963,

immediately after President KENNEDY was shot. Captain LAWRENCE stated that Patrolmen W.E BARNETT and J.M. SMITH were assigned to work the intersection of Houston and Elm Streets on the date of the Presidential Motorcade. Patrolman JAMES W. FOSTER was assigned to work on the east side of the railroad overpass over Elm, Main and Commerce Streets on this date.


        On March 31, 1964, JAMES W. FOSTER, Patrolman, Traffic, Accident Squad, Dallas Police Department, advised he arrived at his assigned station on the triple overpass on November 22, 1963, at approximatley 10:10 AM and took up a point on the railroad overlooking the triple intersection. Patrolman FOSTER stated he remained at this station until after President KENNEDY was shot and he immediately thereafter surveyed the area where he was stationed and observed the area west of the Texas School Book Depository Building lading toward the railroad tracks, and at no time did he see a white man wearing a brown raincoat and hat.


        On March 31, 1964, Mr. ROGER CRAIG, Deputy Sheriff, Civil Department, Dallas County Sheriff’s Office, advised he was on Houston Street just south of Elm Street on November 22, 1963, when President KENNEDY was shot. He stated he observed the crowds standing on Houston and Elm Streets and at no time did he observe any person wearing a brown raincoat and hat.


        On March 31, 1964, Patrolman W. E. BARNETT, Dallas Police Department, advised that he was assigned to work traffic at the intersection of Houston and Elm Streets on November 22, 1963 and arrived at this station at approximately 10:00 AM and remained there until relieved on the afternoon of this date. Patrolman BARNETT stated he was the policeman referred to as being contacted by Mrs. JEAN LOLLIS HILL on that date at the Texas School Book Depository Building and he remembers repairing her cigarette lighter on that date. He stated that he did not know this woman standing on the grassy slope on the south side of Elm Street at the time of the Presidential Motorcade. Patrolman BARNETT stated he observed the crowd at this location immediately after President KENNEDY was shot and after the car in ehich president KENNEDY was riding had left the area,

an unidentified female stated in a loud tone that the shots had come from the building immediately west of the Texas School Book Depository Building. Several persons in the area rushed to this spot based upon this woman’s information, which was later proven false, but he did not observe anyone in a brown raincoat and hat running west at this time.


        On March 31, 1964, Patrolman J.M. SMITH, Dallas Police Department, advised that he had been assigned to work traffic at the Houston and Elm Street intersection on November 22, 1963, and arrived at this station at approximately 10:00 AM. He stated that immediately after President KENNEDY was shot, he tan from the intersection to the west edge of the Texas School Book Depository Building in an attempt to locate the assassin or establish any other information that would lead to the identification of the assassin. He stated at no time did he observe a man wearing a brown raincoat and hat running wast away from the Texas School Book Depository Building in the direction of the railroad tracks on this date.

        Mrs. JEAN LOLLIS HILL, 9402 Bluffcreek, telephone EV 1-7419, advised that she and a friend, MARY ANN MOORMAN of 2832 Ripplewood, were in the vicinity of Main and Houston Streets on November 22, 1963, for approximately one and one-half hours before the arrival of President JOHN F. KENNEDY and his party. While waiting for the motorcade to arrive at this location, Mrs. HILL and MARY ANN walked around the parkway area near the Texas School Book Depository Building in attempts to determine the best vantage spot for taking photographs of the President. Mrs. HILL said she recalls talking to a uniformed policeman of the Dallas Police Department on the sidewalk near the main entrance to the Texas School Book Depository Building. While conversing with the policeman, Mrs. HILL noticed an automobile circling the area. The windows of the vehicle were covered with cardboard and the name “Honest Joe’s Pawn Shop” was painted on the side of the cat.Mrs. HILL made a remark about the automobile and the policeman told her the driver had permission to drive in the area.


        Just before the motorcade appeared, MARY ANN MOORMAN and Mrs. HILL were standing on the lawn in the area between Main and Elm Streets opposite the main entrance of the Texas School Book Depositroy Building, Mrs. MOORMAN was taking photographs of the motorcade as it came into view and when the car occupied by President KENNEDY was passing Mrs. HILL, she recalls shouting, “Hey!” She stated that President KENNEDY was looking down when she shouted, and when he turned to look at her a shot rang out and he slumped towards Mrs. KENNEDY. Mrs. HILL heard more shots ring out and saw the hair on the back of President KENNEDY’s head fly up. She stated she thought Mrs, KENNEDY cried out, “Oh, my God, he’s eem shot!” As the President fell forward in his seat Mrs. HILL knew he had been hit by a bullet. Mrs. HILL stated she heard from four to six shots in all and believes they came from a spot just west of the Texas School Book Depository Building. She thought ther was a slight time interval between the first three shots and the remaining shots.

        When the firing stopped, Mrs. HILL noticed that everyone in the vicinity seemed to be in a trance wondering what had happened. Mrs. HILL recalled it was when that she noticed a white man wearing a brown raincoat and hat running west away from the Texas School Book Depository Building in the direction of the railroad tracks, She said she does not know why but she started across the street in an effort “to see who he was”. In doing so she ran in front of the motorcycle escort following the President’s car and was nearly hit by one of the policemen. Mrs, HILL said she lost the man from view when she looked down at what she first thought was a blood spot but later determined to be a red snow cone. She did not get a good look at this man, does not know who he was and never saw him again. She thought the man was of average height and of heavy build.


        Mrs, HILL then rejoined Mrs, MOORMAN where she had left her, and they started to leave the area. They were stopped by Mr. FEATHERSTONE, a Dallas newspaper man, who took them to the press room at the Dallas County Sheriff’s Office.


        Mrs, HILL stated that she and MARY ANN MOORMAN were at the Sheriff’s Office foe about two hours and were questioned repeatedly by representatives of the press and various Federal and local law enforcement officers. She said that the Sheriff's Office was a scene of extreme confusion and it was impossible to remember what questions were asked of her by the Secret Service Agents and FBI Agents. She recalled that a man identifying himself as either a Secret Service Agent or FBI Agent asked her what she thought when a bullet hit near her feet raising the dust. Mrs. HILL told him she had no recollection of a bullet hitting near her feet. Mrs. HILL told the agents she heard four to six shots and heard one of the agents make the remark “there were three shots, three bullets, that’s enough for nowM”. She advised that at no time did any Federal Agent or other law enforcement officer attempt to tell her what she should say in regard to the number of shots fired or to force any other opinions upon her.

        Mrs. HILL advised that about a month ago she received a long distance telephone call from MARK LANE, a New York attorney, who questioned her regarding the assassination of President KENNEDY. Mrs. HILL stated that from reading some of LANE’s statements regarding this conversation she determined that LANE had taken some of her remarks out of context, thus changing the meaning of her replies, had not used her full answers to some of the questions, and had misquoted her in this conversation. Mrs. HILL stated that LANE asked her occupation and she replied that she was a housewife, This point was pressed by LANE and Mrs. HILL told him that she did some substitute teaching. LANE told her this was great because teachers make very good witnesses.

As I mentioned to you during our meeting last MOnday, members of the  staff are currently in Dallas taking the depositions of various witnesses. I wish to confirm my invitation to you or your representative to participate during the the taking of these depositions in the  manner in which you are currently taking part in the presentation of evidence before the Commission.


So that you are fully informed regarding the names of the witnesses currently being deposed, I am attaching to this letter a list of witnesses whose depositions have been authorized. The first column sets forth the witness to be deposed this week by Mr. Specter, primarily doctors and other personnel of Parkland Hospital. The second column sets forth         the names of witnesses to be handled by .  and Griffith of the Commission staff, including officials of the Dallas Police Department and the Sheriff’s office at Dallas, who will be interrogated regarding the handling of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. The third column lists the witnesses to be handled by Mosars. Jenner and Liebaler and includes persons of the Dallas community familiar with certain of Oswald’s activities in the months preceding the assassination. These  of the staff are under instructions to take these depositions on expeditiously as can be arranged.


I anticipate that the process of taking depositions in Dallas will last through approximately Friday, April 10th. Next week Mr. Hubert will remain in Dallas to interrogate witnesses

associated with Jack Ruby and his activities prior to the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. Depositions will also be taken next week and the following week by , Hall, and Helin of the Commission staff. These attorneys will be interrogating additional witnesses from the Dallas Police Department concerned with the investigation of the assassination and various other Dallas witnesses with information to supply regarding Lee Harvey Oswald’s involvement in the assassination. When I have authorized the depositions of specific witnesses in this area, I shall supply you with a list of the names.


                                I hope that these arrangements meet with your approval.

Mr. Specter: : Dr. William  Clerk, Dr, Charles R. , Dr, Robert H. McClelland, Dr. H.T. Jenkins, Dr. Jackie H, Hunt, Dr. Paul Peters, Dr. Robert Sher, Dr. George Thomas Shires, Miss Janette Stendridge, Mr. B. J. , Miss Henrietta Ross, Dr. Frank A. , Dr. Donald C. Jones, Dr. A. H Glesscke Jr. , Dr. Gene Akin, Dr. Don Curtis, Dr. Charles Gregory, Custodian of Records, Parkland Hospital, Miss Jane Webster, Dr.  C. , Miss Jean Hill, Dr. , Dr. Salyer, Dr. Seldin, Miss Doris Melaon, Miss  , Margaret , Mr. Prico




. Hubert A. Griffin:  Fredarick A. , John J. Daniel, Sidney Evans, Theodore Jackson, Doyle Lane, Louis McKinisie, Elnora Pitts, Henry , W. M. Seringen, J. E. Strong, James Turner, General Manager, O’Heal Funeral Home, or proper representative, Det. D. H. Archer, Res. Officer C. O. Arnett, Asst Ch., Charles Dutchelor, Det. D. L. Pottey, Det. E.R. Beak, Ptn. Alvin B. Brock, Ptn. T. R. Burton, Det. Billy E. Carbont, Det. B. S. Clardy, Det. Richard L. Clark, Lt. F. E. Cornwall, Res. Off. Kenneth H. Croy, Chief J. H Curry, Det. W. J. Cubaher, Sgt. P. T. Dean, Sherriff J. E. Decker, Lt. A. H. , Dep. Chief Fisher, Capt. W. F. Frander, Capt. J.W. Fritz, Det. L.C Graves, Att. Fol. G. W. Harrison, Ptn. H. J. Harrison, Det. W. T. Harrison, Ptn. Warren E. , Res. Off H.B. Holly, Capt. O. A. Jones, Res. Off. H. H. Kriss, Det. J.H. Losvalle, Det. R. L.






. Jenner & Lieveler : George Bouhe, Elena Hill, Anna Heller, Gary Taylor,  , Everett Glover, Mr. & Mrs, Thomas Ray, Mrs, Declan P. Ford, Vollener Schmidt, Samuel H. Ballen, Dorothy , Paul Gregory, Frank Kryotfink, Lylin Dymitruk, Mrs. M. , Mr. & Mrs. A. C. Johnson, Dr. Elenor Wood, Mr. & Mrs. Fred  Davis, Mr. Kenneth Longley, Lennard Elvin , Robert L. Stovall, Dennis H. Ofstein, John , Brian L. Conway,  , Roy Truly, W. W. Semingotn, Cliff Roberts, Robert Taylor, C. E. Smith, Dial D. Ryder, Michael R. Paine, Sterling Charles Wood, Pauline Virginia Bates, W. F. , Chester Allen Riggs Jr, Max E. Clark, Mrs. Frank Henry Roy, Mr. & Mrs. Igor


. Huberd & Griffin

Dep. Ch. C. L.
Capt. F. H. Martin
 B. J. Harry
Res. Off. L. W. Kayo
Lt.
Det. L. D. Miller
Det. L. D. Montgomery
Lt. Ben McCoy
Det.  Lee
Det. T. D.
Res. Off. W. J.
Lt. R. S. Pierce
Sgt. J. A. Putam
Lt. Jack Rovill
 Willis B. Slock
Lt. V. G. Stuart
Sgt. D. F. Steale
Dep. Ch. W.W. Stevenson
Capt. C. E. Talbert
Det. J. C. Watson
Lt. Woodrow Wiggins
Res. Off. C. E. Worley
Radio  on duty,
                Dallas Police Department
   Between 10 a.m. and  p.m.,
  November 24, 1968
 Thomas Gregory
Capt.
Charlotte
Ptn. Leonard E.
Goerge H. Kerp
Capt.  D. King
Pt. Carroll G. Lewis
Dep. Ch. R. H.
Ptn.  J. McGrath
Lt. Robert E. McKinney
Ptn.  C. Nelson
Det. Jesse K.
Ptn. Bobby  Patterson
Clerk, Johnie D. Rewton
Det. H. Daron Reynolds

Reference is made to my letter dated April 2, 1964 , which enclosed copies of a memorandum revealing the results of a reinterview with !\Irs. Jean Lollis Hill. 1\Irs. Hill commented she observed a white man, wearing a brown raincoat and a hat, running west away from the Texas School Book Depository Building following the shooting . Mrs . Hill did not closely observe this individual; did not know who he was; and never saw him a~ain. r.Irs . Hill described this man as "average height and heavy build."


Additional investie;ation has been conducted by this Bureau endeavorinG to identify this individual . This investigation included a review of all available film talcen near the Texas School Book Depository Building following the shooting; a re-examination of the results of all interviews with individuals who were in the vicinity of the shooting; a review of an additional film taken by Mr . Thomas P . Alyea, WFAA- TV newsman; and interviews with Dallas Police Department and Dallas County Sheriff's Office personnel, none· of which revealed the identity of the man described by Mrs . Hill.


Investigative results appear on pages 43 through 49 in the report of Special Agent Robert P . Gemberling dated April 15 , 1964 . This report was furnished to you by letter dated May 4 , 1964 , and no further action i s being taken in this matter.
