"On November 24, 1963 at about 9·A.M. I was advised to report to 511. At approximately 9:25 A.M. Lt. Pierce told me to report to Sgt. Dean in the Basement.
“Sgt. Putnam assigned me to the elevators on the East side of the Basement. My instructions were to let no one but Police Officers and Newsmen into the basement and to check I.D. on everyone. There were several city employees standing in this area looking. I told these people to leave and advised the elevator operator to keep the elevator on the first floor. The only person using the elevator after this was a T.V. man who went to the fifth floor and returned. The elevator operator was told not to answer the buzzer to the Basement again. I remained at this assignment until about 10:45 when Sgt. Dean and Sgt. Putnam called several of us together for traffic assignments.
“I was assigned to Elm and Ervay to stop traffic and reported immediately to this location. I remained there until about 11:30 A.M., when my partner picked me up and we reported to Parkland Hospital for assignment.
“Respectfully submitted,
“Alvis R. Brock
Patrolman, #1661
Patrol Division"
"Sir:
"On Sunday, November 24, 1963 at approximately 9: 00 A.M., I was advised by Lieutenant R. S. Pierce to take a group of men and thoroughly search the garage portion of the basement. This assignment was in preparation and security purposes in the transfer of Harvey Lee Oswald, W/M/24, to the County Jail from the City Jail.
"I then obtained thirteen (13) Reserve Officers from the Detail Room and with the aid of Sergeant J. A. Putnam, Officers L. E. Jez, and A. R. Brock we conducted a systematic search of the basement. The men were advised to check very carefully the cars, trucks, and the overhanging pipes, and air conditioning ducts. Before the search was started at the northern side of the basement, the following men were assigned at these locations:
B. G. Patterson                                                   Top of ramp on Commerce
R. E. Vaughn                                                       Top of ramp on Main
A. R. Brock                                                          Basement Elevators
R. C. Nelson                                                        Basement Entrance from City Hall
Reserve Officer                                                   South Portion of Basement At The Engine Entrance

"These men were advised to permit no one in the basement other than properly identified pressmen or law enforcement officers, and not to leave these assignments for any reason until relieved, by either myself or Sergeant Putnam.
"The above assignments were later supplemented by the officers as follows:
L. E. Jez                                                   Top Commerce Street Ramp
L. c. Taylor                                              Top Commerce Street Ramp

"In addition numerous reserve officers (names of which I did not retain) were assigned to these locations.
"At approximately 11:00 A.M., an armored car was backed into the Commerce Street Exit to the basement.
"Shortly after, approximately 11:15 A.M., Lieutenant Pierce approached me just outside the Jail Office and advised me to ride in the armored Car and to give him two (2) officers to go with him in his car. I advised Sergeant Putnam to get an unassigned man (Sergeant Maxey) and go with Lieutenant Pierce.
"I then went to the Armored Car and remained approximately five minutes until I heard the shot and saw the commotion at the bottom of the ramp which was approximately fifty (50) feet from me.
"Immediately ran to the location to assist the officers with the crowd.
"It was then, while the detective had the suspect on the floor, that I recognized him (the suspect) as Jack Ruby.
"I knew Jack Ruby as the manager of the Carousel Club located in the 1300 block of Commerce. I met him while I was assigned as a sergeant of the Zone 100 which includes the location of the Carousel Club.
"At no time during the day had I seen Jack Ruby either in or around the City Hall. In fact I have not seen him for several months.
"At approximately 12:00 Noon Chief Curry contacted me just outside his office and instructed me to escort Mr. Forrest V. Scorrells, Agent in charge of the local Secret Service, to the Fifth Floor Jail for Mr. Scorrells to interview Mr. Ruby.
"After Mr. Scorrells interrogated the subject I questioned Ruby as to how he had entered the basement and the length of time he had been there. Ruby then stated to me in the presence of

Scorrells that he had entered the basement through the ramp entering on Main Street. He further stated that he would estimate his total time as about three minutes before the detectives brought Oswald into his view, the he immediately shot him (Oswald).

“Respectfully submitted,

Patrick T. Dean
Sergeant of Police
Patrol Division”

“Sir:


“At approximately 9:00 A.M. while working Aquad 105, Officer Roy E. Vaughn received a call to call Extension 511. Officer L. C. Taylor advised me to report to the City Hall and to park the squad car on the street and report to Station 511.

“At approximately 9:15 A.M. or 9:30 A.M., Lieutenant R. S. Pierce told Officers A. R. Brock and B. G. Patterson; R. C. Nelson, and I to report to Sergeant Patrick T. Dean in the basement of the City Hall.

“Officer B. G. Patterson and I were instructed by Sergeant Dean to guard the north and south ramps of the City Hall. I was assigned to the Min Street Ramp.

“During this time there were several police vehicles which contained police officers that entered the basement by this ramp.

“At approximately 10:15 A.M. Ex-Police Officer N. J. Daniels came by this location and remained until after the shooting occurred.

“At approximately 11:18 A.M. a city squad car which contained Lieutenant Piece, Sergeant Maxey and Sergeant Putnam exited by this ramp.

“At approximately 11:21 A.M. I heard what sounded to be a shot, I stayed by the post and allowed no one to enter or leave the basement area. After the shooting, about five (5) police reserves were sent to this ramp to assist with the crowd and traffic.

“At approximately 12:45 P.M. a white male approached me at this entrance and stated he was an employee of Jack Ruby and would like to talk to someone about this. I escorted

“this person to the basement of the City Hall after being relieved on my post by a police reserve and called Captain Fritz’s Office and Detective Boyd came to the basement and took custody of the person.

“I contained Lieutenant Pierce in the Patrol Office and he advised me to secure the post and return to service with the Dispatcher.

“Respectfully submitted,

“Roy E. Vaughn
“REV/bb”                                                                                                                Patrolman #1539
Patrol Division”
