car on their respective sides whenever it slowed down sufficiently
to permit them to do so or came to a halt.
        There are special steps and handles built into the President's
car at the two rear corners especially so that agents riding the
front running board  of the Presidential follow-up car can ride
there; the President had frequently stated that he did not wish
to have the agents riding on these steps during a motorcade and
had repeated this wish only a few days previously to agents
assigned to him in Tampa. (In Dallas SA Hill, who had been
assigned to Mrs. Kennedy and had not been in Tampa with the
President, occasionally rode on the left rear step. Agent Ready,
who was aware that the president has specifically stated his
objection to agents' riding on the steps, did not ride the
in Dallas.)
    (5)  The Vice Presidential car. This was an open Lincoln
Continental convertible.  It was driven by Hurchel Jacks of the
Texas Highway Patrol, and ASAIC Rufus W. Youngblood rode in the
right front seat. Vice President Johnson occupied the right rear
seat, Mrs. Johnson the center rear seat, and Senator Yarborough
the left rear seat. ASAIC Youngblood was in charge of the Vice
Presidential detail at this time.
      II. NARRATIVE OF EVENTS IN DALLAS ON NOVEMBER 22, 1963
         The Presidential aircraft touched down at Love Field,
Dallas, Texas, at about 11:37 a.m., November 22, 1963.  The
weather was sunny with temperatures in the 70's.  At 11:40 a.m.,
the President came out from the rear exit of his plane and down
the ramp, together with Mrs. Kennedy, Governor and Mrs. Connally
and other members of his party.  ASAIC Kellerman and SA Hill
also came out the rear exit. ATSAIC Roberts and SA's Ready,
Lawton, McIntyre and Greer, came down the front ramp and with
the exception of Greer (the driver of the President's car) ,
promptly joined the others with the President and Mrs. Kennedy.
ASAIC Youngblood, assisted by ATSAIC Johns, and SA's Kivett and
Warren Taylor, took positions in proximity to the Vice
President and Mrs. Johnson.
       The President and Mrs. Kennedy then walked sown a receiving
line, shaking hands with fifteen to twenty persons of the local
committee.  The First Lady was presented with a bouquet of red
roses, and the President with two charcoal drawings in a leather
frame which he handed to SA Landis to hold.  The President and
Mrs. Kennedy then walked over to a lady seated in a wheelchair be-
tween the airplane and the chain link fence where the crowd was
and friendly as the President and Mrs. Kennedy moved along.  At
one point Mrs. Kennedy seemed to fall slightly behind the President
and the agents then made it possible for her to catch up with
her husband.  At one time Mrs. Kennedy turned away from the
fence to proceed to the Presidential car accompanies by the
agents guarding her. but then noticed that the President had
continued down the fence and rejoined him.  At another point
where the fence makes a right angle the President started to
move out to his car but then turned back and resumed the
handshaking for an additional brief interval, All along this
fence were Dallas policemen at frequent intervals, posted
 looking at the crowd, while in the crowd were a number of plain-
clothesmen of the Dallas Police Department.
        The Vice President and Mrs. Johnson also shook hands with
people in the crowd, following the President and Mrs. Kennedy
along the fence.  During this time and throughout the occasion,
they were guarded by four members of the Vice Presidential Detail,
namely: ASAIC Youngblood, ATSAIC Johns, SA Kivett, and SA Warren
Taylor. SA Taylor was detailed on this trip to accompany
Mrs. Johnson.
                                                     Re:    Visit of the President, Mrs. Kennedy,
                                                              the Vice President, and Mrs. Johnson
                                                              to Dallas, Texas, where they were
                                                              scheduled to attend a luncheon and the
                                                              President was to speak.  This luncheon
                                                              was sponsored by the Dallas Citizens
                                                              Council, the Dallas Assembly, and
                                                              the Science Research Center on
                                                              November 22, 1963.


INTRODUCTION


Reference is made to my preliminary survey report dated November 19. 1963.


This survey was conducted by SA Winston Lawson, Office 1-16, and SAIC
Forrest Sorrels, Office 3-3, and assisted by SA David Grant, Office 1-16,
from November 13 through November 22, 1963. SA Jerry Kivett, Office 1-22,
coordinated the Vice President's plans for the visit from November 18
through November 22, 1963.


A large crowd was on hand to greet the Presidential Party at the airport.
The motorcade route was lined by crowds which were quite large, especially
in the downtown area.  The invited guests were awaiting the arrival of
the Presidential Party at the Trade Mart, the site of the luncheon and
speech.


Appropriate attire for this luncheon was a business suit.


ITINERARY


11:35 a.m.  The Vice President and Mrs. Johnson accompanied by other
                   members of the party arrived at Love Field, Dallas,
                   Texas, aboard AF #2. (See attached Proposed Manifest
                   for AF #2 - Fort Worth to Dallas.) Attachment #1


                           Confidential            Commission No. 3
       Keep Freedom in Your Future With U.S. Savings Bonds   Secret Service




Image 6
      Johnson, Lyndon B.  , Mrs
                                              Confidential                   {Exhibit} 7
                                                                                                       12/18/63
Mr. James J. Rowley                 -2-                           1-16-602.111


11:40 a.m.     The President, Mrs. Kennedy, and Governor and Mrs.
                      Connally, accompanied by other members of the party,
                      arrived at Love Field, Dallas, Texas.  (See attached
                      Proposed Manifest for AF #1 - Fort Worth to Dallas.)
                      Attachment #2.


                      The President was met by members of the party from
                      AF #2 and the local reception committee.  Mrs. Kennedy,
                      Mrs. Johnson, and Mrs, Connally were presented flowers.
                      (See preliminary report reception committee list.  Mr.
                      George Miner and Mr. David Keeler were deleted.)

                      The President, Mrs. Kennedy, the Vice President and
                      Mrs. Johnson walked along the airport fence shaking
                      hands and greeting the crowd.  The motorcade vehicles
                      were being loaned at this time.  (See Scheduled
                      Motorcade List.)  Attachment #3.


11:55 a.m.     The Presidential Party departed the airport.


12:29 p.m.     Appropriate signal given by SA Lawson from Lead Car that
                      we were approximately five minutes from destination -
                      the Trade Mart.


12:30 p.m.     Because of what appeared to be the sound of a firecracker
(Approx.)       or gunfire, also because of unusual activity in the
                      Presidential and follow-up cars, we immediately accelerated
                      movement of Lead Car. Information was received over the
                      two-way radio that we should proceed to the nearest hospital,
                      and we were escorted speedily to the Parkland Hospital.
                      The President and Governor Cannily were placed on stretchers
                      and were immediately take to the Emergency Room for medical
                      attention.  (See my statement and statements from other
                      agents as to activities during this incident.)


                      Note:  Separate reports containing information on activities
                      at the hospital and subsequent trips of the Vice President
                      and the body of the President to Love Field and their
                      departure for Washington, D. C., will be submitted as soon
                      as practical.


                      Note:  The following is the approximate scheduling of
                      events and itinerary for the remainder of the visit.


12:35 p.m.     Presidential Party should arrive at the Trade Mart, 2100
 (Approx.)      Stemmons Freeway in parking lot on Industrial Boulevard.


Catering for the luncheon was furnished by Crotty Bros., Boston,
Massachusetts, the contract catered for the Trade Mart. They
normally operate the Trade Mart cafeteria on food service. The Presi-
dent's food supply was to come from the general food supply, and the
head table waiters, food preparers, and Crotty Bros. personnel were
listed and names and data sent by SAIC Sorrels, Dallas, to our Protec-
tive Research Section for processing.  Any catering personnel in
proximity to the head table were identified by green lapel clips.


The Dallas Fire Department conducted a safety inspection and had fire-
men deployed in the Trade Mart with protective equipment.  The Dallas
Health Department inspected the kitchen area and facilities.


The general public was not allowed in the parking lot area where the
motorcade would pass and was to stop.  No public vehicles were allowed
to park in the lot.  It was secured by ropes and barricades.  Police
officers were placed on the roof of the Trade Mart, Market Hall, and
Dallas Home Furnishings Mart, as they overlooked the point where the
President would alight from his vehicle.  Police were also utilized for
crowd, traffic, and parking control at the Trade Mart.


Special instructions were sent to lessees of the Trade Mart by W. E.
Cooper, General Manager, Dallas Market Center.  (See attachment #9.)


See Trade Mart diagram. Attachment #10.


POST ASSIGNMENTS


The following changed from the preliminary report should be noted:
SA Rybka remained at the airport to help effect security of the departure
with SA Lawton and SA Roger Warner.  SA Taylor was assigned to be in
close proximity to Mrs. Johnson and work the Vice Presidential Detail
follow-up car in addition to those agents previously mentioned in the
preliminary survey report.


SS-100-X, Presidential car, was driven by SA Greer with ASAIC Kellerman
in the front seat.


SS-679-X, Presidential follow-up car, was driven by SA Kinney and worked
by ATSAIC Roberts and SAs Hill, Landis, Ready, McIntyre, Bennett, and
Hickey.  Mr. O'Donnell and Mr. Powers, White House Staff, were also in
this car.


The Vice Presidential car, a Lincoln Convertible, was driven by Herschel
Jacks, Texas DPS Officer, with ASAIC Youngblood in the front seat.
The Vice Presidential Detail follow-up car, a Mercury sedan, was driven


                        PROPOSED MANIFEST - AF #2
   FORT WORTH TO DALLAS


1.   THE VICE PRESIDENT                17.   SAM SULLIMAN - SS
2.   MRS. LYNDON JOHNSON                18.   RICHARD JOHNSEN - SS
3.   CLIFF CARTER                        19.   ERNEST OLSSON - SS
4.   GEORGE REEDY                        20.   ANDREW BERGER  - SS
5.   MARIE FEHMER                        21.   PAUL E. LANDIS - SS
6.   ELIZABETH CARPENTER                22.   RUFUS YOUNGBLOOD - SS
7.   GENERAL CLIFTON                 23.   LEM JOHNS - SS
8.   CONG. J. BROOKS                 24.   GLENN BENNETT - SS
9.   CONG. A. THOMAS                25.   SP-7 GEORGE MILLER - USA
10.   CONG. H. THORNBERRY                26.   LT. GOV. PRESTON SMITH
11.   CONG. G. PURCELL                27.   ATTORNEY GENERAL WAGGONER CARR
12.   CONG. J. YOUNG                        28.   SPEAKER BYRON TUENELL
13.   CONG. W. ROGERS                29.   MRS. PRESTON SMITH
14.   CONG. G. MAHON                         30.   MRS. WAGGONER CARR
15.   CONG. H. GONZALEZ                31.   MRS. BYRON TUENELL
16.   STEWART STOUT - SS                32.   WARREN TAYLOR - SS


                        SCHEDULED MOTORCADE LIST


Motorcycles


Pilot Car - Jack Puterbaugh, Deputy Chief G. L. Lumpkin, Detectives Turner and
                                                                Sinkle


Motorcycles


Lead Car - Chief Curry, Sheriff Decker, SAIC Sorrels, SA Lawson


President’s Car (SS-100-X) - President, Mrs. Kennedy, Governor Connally,
                                Mrs. Connally, ASAIC Kellerman, SA Greer driving


Motorcycles (position varied)


SS Follow-UP Car (SS-679-X) - SA Kinney driving, ATSAIC Roberts, SAs Hill,
                                     Landis, Ready, Bennett, McIntyre.
                                     Note:    See Post Assignments Section for
                                                        additional persons who were in
                                                        follow-up car.


Vice President’s Car - Vice President, Mrs. Johnson, Senator Yarborough,
(Lincoln Con-                DPS driver Herschel Jacks, ASAIC Youngblood
 vertible)


SS Follow-Up Car - DPS driver Joe H. Rich, ATSAIC Johns, SAs Kivett and Taylor
(Mercury)


Car #1 - Mayor and Mrs. Earle Cabell, Congressman Ray Roberts
(Comet Convertible)


Telephone Car - Wire Services, WH Press Officer


Press Pool Convertible - Pool White House Newsreel and Motion Picture
(Chevrolet)


Press Pool Convertible - Pool White House Still Photographers
(Chevrolet)


Press Pool Convertible - Local Press Pool of both Still and Newsreel Photographers


Car #2 - Congressmen Rogers, Thomas, Thornberry and Mahon
(Mercury Convertible)



                        HEAD TABLE LIST                          12/18/63


1. PRESIDENT
2. MRS. KENNEDY
3. VICE PRESIDENT JOHNSON
4. MRS. JOHNSON
5. GOVERNOR AND MRS. CONNALLY
6. SENATOR YARBOROUGH
7. MR. AND MRS. ERIK JONSSON
8. MR. AND MRS. DAWSON STERLING
9. DR. AND MRS. LLOYD BERKNER
10. MAYOR AND MRS. EARLE CABELL


        On November 22, 1963, I was assigned to drive the Vice President’s car
in Fort Worth, Texas, and was therefore not assigned a post during the Dallas
visit.

        Upon Completion of my assigned duties in Fort Worth, Texas, which occurred
sooner than anticipated, I departed Carswell Air Force Base in Secret Service
car 720-S, and proceeded to Dallas Love Field to assist in the general security
in that area.  I arrived at Dallas Love Field at approximately 12:20 P. M.,
and assisted the local police and Special Agents Warner and Lawton in the
security of Air Force I and II.


        At approximately 12:30 P. M. the crew of Air Force I was alerted to stand
by for immediate departure and this was the first indication I received that
some trouble had occurred with the Presidential visit.  Succeeding information
was obtained at various intervals from the plane crew and over a pocket radio
carried by one of the local police officers.  It was by this means that I
learned the President had been assassinated.


        Upon learning of the President’s death, I assisted SA LAwson and SA Warner
in direction of local police officers in applying strict security to Air Force
I and II and the general landing area and buildings in the vicinity.


        I remained in close proximity of Air Force I during the arrival of Vice
President and Mrs. Johnson, the President’s coffin, and Mrs. Kennedy.  I
stayed in the vicinity of Air Force I until it departed, at which time I return-
ed to the Dallas Field Office.



The President with Mrs. Kennedy and official party arrived at Love
Field, Dallas, Texas, aboard AF #1 (USAF 26000) at 11:40 a.m. (cst).
After the receiving members of the official reception party, the President
and Mrs. Kennedy walked over to a fenced area and shook hands with many
of the people who had gathered there to view their arrival.  At the conclusion
of greeting the gathering, the President, MRs. Kennedy, Governor and Mrs.
Connally entered the presidential limousine (special car: bubble-top, 1961
Lincoln Continental, seven-passenger, four-door convertible sedan).  The
President sat on the right rear seat with Mrs. Kennedy to the left of him.
Governor Connally sat on the right jump seat and Mrs. Connally sat on the
left jump seat.  I rode in the front (right side) and William Greer drove
the vehicle.


In the Secret Service follow-up car, 1956 Cadillac touring sedan (top down),
driven by SA Samuel Kinney, ATSAIC Emory Roberts rode in the right front
seat, SA John Ready stood on the right front running board, SA Paul Landis
on right rear running board, SA Clinton J. Hill on left front running board
and William McIntyre on the left rear running board. SA Glen Bennett rode in
the right rear seat and SA George Hickey on the left rear seat. Mr. Kenneth
O’Donnell and MR. David Powers (White House staff) rode the left and right
jump seats respectively.


Behind the follow-up car was the Vice President’s car with Vice President
and Mrs. Johnson and senator Yarborough in the rear seat. SA Rufus
Youngblood rode in the right front seat and the police officer drove the car.
The following vehicles were four cars of congressional members, press
cars, VIP bus and then press busses.


We departed Love Field at 11:55 a.m., along the planned motorcade route,
enroute to a luncheon at the Trade Mart, given by the Democratic Citizens
Council, scheduled for 12:30 p.m. cst. As the motorcade completed the
main thoroughfare through Dallas, we made a sharp right turn,for about a ½
block, then a curved left turn into a slight downhill grade, entering an area
with little or no spectators. We were still traveling at the normal rate of
speed from 12 to 15 miles per hour when I heard a noise, similar to a
firecracker, exploding in the area to the rear of the car. About 12:30 p.m.


Immediately I heard what I firmly believe was the President’s voice, “My
God, I’m hit!” I turned around to find out what happened when two addi-
tional shots rang out, and the PResident slumped into Mrs. Kennedy’s


lap and Governor Connally fell into MRs. Connally’s lap. I heard Mrs.
Kennedy shout, “What are they doing to you?”


Confidential [stamped, crossed out}
I yelled at William Greer (the driver) to “Step on it, we’re hit!” and grabbed
the mike from the car radio, called to SA Lawson in the police lead car
that we were hit and to get us to a hospital.


With SA Lawson riding in the police car they quickly formed the accompany-
ing escort for the motorcade around our limousines and sped us through the streets to the emergency entrance of Parkland Memorial Hospital.
Sometime during the ride to the hospital while looking back into the car
I noticed SA Hill hanging on to the back of the car, laying across the
trunk.  When we got to the hospital I called to the agents to get two
stretchers.  The special agents of the follow-up car with the police ran
into the hospital, obtaining two stretchers on wheels. We placed the Governor
on the first one at which time I noticed he was conscious and I spoke to him
saying, “Governor, everything is going to be all right.” His eyes were wide
open and he nodded his head in agreement.  Just before we removed the
President, SA Hill took off his coat, placed it over the President’s head
and chest and we placed him on the stretcher.  Both were taken into
separate emergency rooms.  The hospital staff appeared quickly and went
immediately to work.  I accompanied the President to the emergency room.
His eyes were closed but I could see no visible damage to his face.  The
room was crowded with the medical people so I immediately walked out
into a doctor’s room, asked SA Lawson for the phone number of the White
house switchboard in Dallas.  SA Hill dialed the number to the White House
operator in Washington and I talked with General A. Behn, Special Agent in
Charge, White House Detail.  I informed him that we had an incident in
Dallas, the President and Governor Connally has been shot and both were
in emergency rooms at the Parkland Memorial Hospital.  This I believe
was about 12:38 p.m. cst.  This direct telephone line from Dallas to SAIC
Behn at Washington was kept open from this time until the plane departed.
SAIC Behn was kept informed of all proceedings, plans or desires of both
Mrs. Kennedy and President Johnson.


We immediately secured the corridors and the emergency room area, fur-
nished the blood type of the President to the medical staff upon their
request.  It should be noted that Vice President and Mrs. Johnson were
placed in a separate room away from the emergency room.  Some time
later SA Warren Taylor came to me and said the Vice President wanted to
see me.  Mr. Johnson asked me the condition of the President and the
Governor.  I advised him that the Governor was taken up to surgery, that


the doctors were still working on the President.  He asked me to keep him
informed of his condition.  SA Kinney entered the emergency room area
when I returned there and asked if it would be all right to drive the
President’s car and the follow-up car back to the airport, load them aboard
the plane.  I said “Yes” and told him to return the cars to Washington, D.C.

Confidential
The 4 to 12 shift (ATSAIC Stout, etc.) joined us at the emergency room and
the 8 to 4 shift (ATSAIC Roberts, etc.) immediately joined the Vice Presi-
dent and Mrs. Johnson.


Through Dr. Burkley, President’s physician, we were advised officially
of the death of the President which was registered on the death certificate
as 1 p.m. cst. Between 1 p.m., and our departure from the hospital at
2:04 p.m. cst., a casket was obtained and with Mrs. Kennedy, SA Hill
and Dr. Burkley riding in the hearse with the casket, SA Berger (Stout
and Kellerman in the front seat) drove the hearse with police escort to Love
Field.


The Vice President and Mrs. Johnson had preceded us with Roberts shift
to the airport and when we had arrived, the field had been secured and we
rushed to AF 26000.  All available special agents carried the casket from
the ambulance up to the rear steps and placed it in the rear section of the
plane.  When we boarded the plane, Vice PResident Johnson and his party
were aboard the plane.  The services of Federal Judge Sarah T. Hughes
was obtained, she was brought into the plane, and Vice President Johnson
was administered the oath of office and sworn in as PResident at 2:38 p.m. cst.


At 2:47 p.m., USAF 26000 was airborne for Washington, D.C., arriving at
Andrews Air Force BAse at 5:58 p.m. est.


While airborne, arrangements were made for a Naval ambulance from the
New Naval Medical center at Bethesda to be available at the airport.  Upon
landing, we removed the casket, placed it into the ambulance.  At the air-
port, Chief Rowley advised me that two FBI agents, Francis O’Neill, Jr.,
and James Siebert, had been assigned to this case and to allow them into
the morgue at the U. S. Naval Hospital.  I told Chief Rowly the cars would
arrive at Andrews at about 8 p.m., and suggested he assign field agents to
them to completely go over them for any evidence that might be found.


Mrs. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy and General McHugh sat in the rear of the
ambulance; SAs Greer, Landis and myself with Dr. Burkley rode in the
front to Bethesda, with a police escort.  The body was immediately taken
to the morgue and the family was assigned rooms in the Towers  RHK

of the Center.  Hill and Landis remained with Mrs. Kennedy in her quarters
and William Greer and I remained in the morgue and viewed the autopsy
examinations which were performed by Vice Admiral Gallway, Commanding
Officer, NNMC, Chief Pathologist Cdr. James Humes, Lt. Col. Pierre A.
Flink who is Chief, Military Environmental Pathology Division and Chief
of Wound Ballistics, Pathology BRanch, and J. Thornton Boswell, Cdr.
Medical Corps, USN, together with the Naval Medical Staff.  SA O’Leary
was also in the morgue briefly.  Agents O’Neill and Siebert were present.


During the night Joseph Gawlers Sons, Inc., funeral directors, were
notified by Robert Kennedy and Sargent Shriver and a new coffin was
obtained.  After the completion of the autopsy and before the embalming
I summoned SA Hill down to the morgue to view the body and to witness
the damage of the gunshot wounds.  The embalming was performed after the autopsy by the staff of Joseph Gawlers.


Prior to our departure from the Naval Hospital I received all film,
x-rays, that were used during the autopsy, and upon arrival at the White
House I turned them over to SAIC Bouck.


We left the hospital at 3:56 a.m. in the Navy ambulance and with police
escort motored to the White House.  Mrs. Kennedy and Robert Kennedy
rode in the hearse, SA Greer drive, Kellerman in the front seat, SAs
Hill and Landis with members of the family rode in the cars following the
ambulance.  We arrived at the White House at 4:24 a.m.  The body was
placed in the East Room.


On Wednesday, November 27, 1963, FBI Agents O’Neill and Siebert were
given an oral statement along the lines of this report.
