
                The President arrived at the Emergency Room at 12:43 P.M., the 22nd of November, 1963. He was in the back seat of his limousine. Governor Connally of Texas was also in this car. The first physician to see the President was [(Dr. James Carrico, a Resident in General Surgery.

                Dr. Carrico noted the President to have slow, agonal respiratory efforts. He could hear a heartbeat but found no pulse or blood pressure to be present. Two external wounds, one in the lower third of the anterior neck, and the other in the occipital region of the skull, were noted. Through the head wound, blood and brain were extruding. Dr. Carrico inserted a cuffed endotracheal tube. While doing so, he noted a ragged wound of the trachea immediately below the larynx.

                At this time, Dr. Malcom Perry, Attending Surgeon, Dr. Charles Baxter, Attending Surgeon, and Dr. Ronald Jones, another Resident in General Surgery, arrived. Immediately thereafter, Dr. M. T. Jenkins, Director of the Department of Anesthesia, and Doctors Giesecke and Hunt, two other Staff Anesthesiologists, arrived. The endotracheal tube had been connected to a Bennet respirator to assist the President’s breathing. An Anesthesia machine was substituted for this by Dr. Jenkins. Only 100% oxygen was administered.

A cutdown was performed in the right ankle, and a polyethylene catheter inserted in the vein. An infusion of lactated Pinger’s solution was begun. Blood was drawn for type and crossmatch, but unmatched type “O” RH negative blood was immediately obtained and begun. Hydrocortisone 300 mgms was added to the intravenous fluids.

Dr. Robert McClelland, Attending Surgeon arrived to help in the President’s care. Doctors Perry, Baxter, and McClelland began a tracheostomy, as considerable quantities of blood were present from the President’s oral pharynx. At this time, Dr. Paul Peters, Attending Urological Surgeon, and Dr. Kemp Clark, Director of Neurological Surgery, arrived. Because of the lacerated

Trachea, anterior chest tubes were placed in both pleural spaces. These were connected to sealed underwater drainage.

Neurological examination revealed the President’s pupils to be widely dilated and fixed to light. His eyes were divergent, being deviated outward; a skew deviation from the horizontal was present. No deep tendon reflexes or spontaneous movements were found.

There was a large wound in the right occipitoparietal region, from which profuse bleeding was occurring. 1500 cc. of blood were estimated on the drapes and floor of the Emergency Operating Room. There was considerable loss of scalp and bone tissue. Both cerebral and cerebellar tissue were extruding from the wound.

Further examination was not possible as cardiac arrest occurred at this point. Closed chest cardiac massage was begun by Dr. Clark. A pulse palpable in both the carotid and femoral arteries was obtained. Dr. Perry relieved on the cardiac massage while a cardiotachioscope was connected. Dr. Fouad Bashour, Attending Physician, arrived as this was being connected. There was electrical silence of the President’s heart.

President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300 hours by Dr. Clark.
Upon receiving a stat alarm that this distinguished patient was being brought to the emergency room at Parkland Memorial Hospital, I dispatched  and  with an anesthesia machine and resuscitative equipment to the major surgical emergency room area, and I ran down the stairs. On my arrival in the emergency operating room at approximately 1230 I found that  and/or  had begun resuscitative efforts by introducing an orotracheal tube, connecting it for controlled ventilation to a Bennet intermittent positive pressure breathing apparatus.  arrived at the same time and began the tracheostomy and started the insertion of a right chest tube, since there was also obvious tracheal and chest damage.  arrived simultaneously and immediately thereafter assisted respectively with the insertion of the right chest tube and with manual closed chest cardiac compression to assure circulation.

For better control of artificial ventilation, I exchanged the intermittent positive pressure breathing apparatus for an anesthesia machine and continued artificial ventilation. Doctors  and A.H. Giesecke assisted with the respiratory problems incident to changing from the orotracheal tube to a tracheostomy tube, and Doctors Hunt and Giesecke connected a cardioscope to determine cardiac activity.

During the progress of these activities, the emergency room cart was elevated at the foot in order to provide a Trendelenburg position, a venous cutdown was performed on the right saphenous vein, and additional fluids were begun in a vein in the left forearm while blood was ordered from the blood bank. All of these activities were completed by approximately 1245, at which time external cardiac massage was still being carried out effectively by Doctor Clark as judged by a palpable peripheral pulse. Despite these measures there was no electrocardiographic evidence of cardiac activity.
2- Statement concerning resuscitative

there described resuscitative activities were indicated as of first importance, and after they were carried out “tention was turned to all other evidences of injury. There was a great laceration on the right side of the head (temporal and occipital), causing a great defect in the skull plate so that there was herniation and laceration of great area of the brain, even to the extent that the cerebellum had protruded from the wound. There were also fragmented sections of brain on the drapes of the emergency room cart. With the institution of adequate cardiac compression, there was a great flow of blood from the cranial cavity, indicating that there was much vascular damage as well as brain tissue damage.

It is my personal feeling that all methods of resuscitation were instituted expeditiously and efficiently. However, this cranial and intracranial damage was of such magnitude as to cause the irreversible damage. President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300.
On November 25, 1963, Mr. C.J. PRICE, Administrator, Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas, Texas, advised that the Death Certificate and Statement of Medical Treatment relation to President JOHN F. KENNEDY had been taken by GEORGE G. BURKLEY, M.D., White House, Washington, D.C., and Secret Service Agents. Mr. PRICE stated, however, that a summary had been prepared by Dr. KEMP CLARK, Director, Service of Neurological Surgery at the request of GEORGE G. BURKLEY, MD, and was transmitted to Dr. BURKLEY by letter dated November 23, 1963.

Mr. PRICE made available reproduced copies of the summary and letter furnished Dr. BURKLEY.

The following are the contents of the summary prepared by Dr. KEMP CLARK, verbatim:

Summary

“The President arrived at the Emergency Room at 12:43 P.M, the 22nd of November, 1963, He was in the back seat of his limousine. Governor Connally of Texas was also in this car. The first physician to see the President was Dr. James Carrico, a Resident in General Surgery.

“Dr. Carrico noted the President to have slow agonal respiratory efforts. He could hear a heartbeat but found no pulse or blood pressure to be present. Two external wounds, one in the lower third of the anterior neck, the all other in the occipital region of the skull, were noted. Through the head wound, blood and brain were extruding. Dr. Carrico inserted a cuffed endotracheal tube. While doing so, he noted a ragged wound of the trachea immediately below the larynx.

“At this time, Dr. Malcom Perry, Attending Surgeon, Dr. Charles Baxter, Attending Surgeon, and Dr. Ronald Jones, another Resident in General Surgery, arrived. Immediately thereafter, Dr. M.T. Jenkins, Director of the Department of Anesthesia and Doctors Giesecke and Hunt, two other Staff Anesthesiologists, arrived. The endotracheal tube had been connected to a

“Bennet respirator to assist the President’s breathing. An anesthesia machine was substituted for this by Dr. Jenkins. Only 100% oxygen was administered.

“A cutdown was performed in the right ankle, and a polyethylene catheter inserted in the vein, an infusion of lactated Ringer’s solution was begun. Blood was drawn for type and crossmatch, but unmatched type ‘O’ RH negative blood was immediately obtained and begun. Hydrocortisone 300 mgms was added to the intravenous fluids.

“Dr. Robert McClelland, Attending Surgeon, arrived to help in the President’s care. Doctors Perry, Baxter, and McClelland began a tracheostomy, as considerable quantities of blood were present from the President’s oral pharynx. At this time, Dr. Kemp Clark, Director of Neurological Surgery, arrived. Because of the lacerated trachea, anterior chest tubes were placed in both pleural spaces. These where connected to sealed underwater drainage.

“Neurological examination revealed the President’s pupils to be widely dilated and fixed to light. His eyes were divergent, being deviated outward; a skew deviation from the horizontal was present. No deep tendon reflexes or spontaneous movement were found.

“There was a large wound in the right occipitoparietal region, from which profuse bleeding was occurring. 1500 cc. of blood were estimated on the drapes and floor of the Emergency
Operating Room. There was considerable loss of scalp and bone tissue both cerebral and cerebellar tissue were extruding from the wound.

“Further examination was not possible as cardiac arrest occurred at this point. Closed chest cardiac massage was began by Dr. Clark. A pulse palpable in both the carotid and femoral arteries was obtained. Dr. Perry relieved on the cardiac massage while a cardiotachioscope was connected. Dr. Fouad Bashour, Attending Physician arrived as this was being connected.

“There was electrical silence of the President’s heart.

“President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300 hours by Dr. Clark.
As you know, this Commission was established on November 29, 1963, to investigate and report on all the circumstances relating to the assassination of President Kennedy and the killing of the alleged assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald. One of our staff attorneys, Arlen Specter, plans to be in Dallas on Friday, March 20, 1964. At some time during the following week he will contact you regarding our inquiry and discuss with you arrangements for taking your testimony regarding the events of last November 22 at Parkland Memorial Hospital in which you participated.

For your information, I am enclosing copies of Executive Order No. 11130 creating this Commission, S.J. Res. 137, and the Rules of Procedure of this Commission for the questioning of witnesses by members of the Commission staff.
Mr. Hubert called this evening to inform us that the following depositions were taken today by the designated staff members:

 Witness                                Staff Member

Mr. Don Curtis                                                                                        Mr. Specter
Dr. Donald C. Jones                                                                                             “
Dr. Charles R. Baxter                                                                                           “
Dr. Jackie H. Hunt                                                                                               “
Nurse Dianne Bowron                                                                                         “
Capt. O. A. Jones                                                                                         Mesers. Hubert & Griffin
Det. L. C. Graves                                                                                                  “
Capt. F. M. Martin                                                                                               “
Det. B. S. Clardy                                                                                                  “
Det. L. D. Miller                                                                                                  “
Det. L. D. Montgomery                                                                                       “
Mr. E. D. Clever                                                                                       Mesers. Jenner & Liebeler
Mr. Frank Krystinik                                                                                              “
Two other witnesses this afternoon,                                                                  “
But Mr. Hubert didn’t know the names.

Mr. Hubert indicated they plan to take depositions from the following witnesses tonight: Capt. C.E. Talbert, Sgt. J.A. Putnam, Lt. R.S. Pierce, Officer A.R. Brock, and Sgt. P. T. Dean. He also expressed their plan to take depositions of 14 individuals tomorrow (Wednesday, March 25th) and 14 the following day (Thursday, March 26th).
As I mentioned to you during out meeting last Monday, members of the Commission staff are currently in Dallas taking the depositions of various witnesses. I wish to confirm my invitation to you or your representative to participate during the taking of these depositions in the same manner in which you are currently taking part in the presentation of evidence before the Commission.

So that you are fully informed regarding the names of the witnesses currently being deposed, I am attaching to this letter a list of witnesses whose depositions have been authorized. The first column sets forth the witnesses to be deposed this week by Mr. Specter, primarily doctors and other personnel of Parkland Hospital. The second column sets forth the names of witnesses to be handled by Mesers. Hubert and Griffin of the Commission staff, including officers of the Dallas Police Department and the Sheriff’s office at Dallas, who will be interrogated regarding the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. The third column lists the witnesses to be handled by Mesers. Jenner & Liebeler including persons of the Dallas community familiar with certain of Oswald’s activities in the months preceding the assassination. These members of the staff ate under instructions to take these depositions as expeditiously as can be arranged.

I anticipate that the process of taking depositions in Dallas will last through approximately Friday, April 10th. Next week Mr. Hubert will remain in Dallas to interrogate witnesses

Associated with Jack Ruby and his activities prior to the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. Depositions will also be taken next week and the following week by Mesers. Ball and Belin of the Commission staff. These attorneys will be interrogating additional witnesses from the Dallas Police Department concerned with the investigation of the assassination and various other Dallas witnesses with information to supply regarding Lee Harvey Oswald’s involvement in the assassination. When I have authorized the depositions of specific witnesses in this area, I shall supply you with a list of the names.

I hope that these arrangements meet with your approval.
 Mr. Specter

Dr. William Kemp Clark
Dr. Charles R. Baxter
Dr. Robert N. McClelland
Dr. M.T. Jenkins
Dr. Jackie H. Hunt
Dr. Paul Peters
Dr. Robert Shaw
Dr. George Thomas Shires
Miss Janette Standridge
Mr. R. J. Jimison
Miss Henrietta Ross
Dr. Frank A. Bashour
Dr. Ronald C. Jones
Dr. A.H. Giesecke, Jr.
Dr. Gene Akin
Dr. Don Curtis
Dr. Charles Gregory
Custodian of Records, Parkland Hospital
Miss Jane Webster
Mr. Darrell C. Tomlinson
Miss Jean Hill
Dr. Crenshaw
Dr. Salyer
Dr. _______
Miss Doris Nelson
Miss Diana Bowron
Margaret Henchliffe
Mr. Price
 Mesers. Hubert & Griffin

Frederick A. Beiberdoff
John J. Deniel
Sidney Evens
Theodore Jackson
Doyle Larie
Louis McKinzie
Elners Pitts
H___y Reeves
W. W. Semingen
J. E. Strong
James Turner
General Manager, O’Neal Funeral Home, or proper representative.
Det. D. H. Archer
Res. Officer C. O. Arnett
Asst. Ch. C. Batchelor
Det. B. L. Beattay
Det. B.R. Deck
Ptn. Alvin R. Breck
Ptr. T. R. Burton
Det. Billy H. Carbest
Det. Vernon C. Campbell
N_____  T. Chabot
Det. B. S. Clarey
Det. Richard L. Clark
Det. F. I. Corn__ll
Res. Off. Kenneth H. Crey
Chief J. H. Curry
Det. W. J. Cutshaw
Sgt. P. T. Deen
Sheriff J. E. Decker
Lt. A. M. Eder___
Dep. Chief Fisher
Capt. W. F. Fraiser
Capt. J. W. Fritz
Det. L. C. Graven
Aux. Pol. O. W. Harrison
Ptn. W. J. Harrison
Det. W. T. Harrison
Ptn. Warren E. Hibbs
Res. Off. H. E. Holly
Capt. O. A. Jones
Res. Off. H. N. Kriss
Det. J. R. Leavalle
Det. R. L. Lowery

 Mesers. Jenner & Liebeler

George Bouke
Elena Hall
Anna Mellar
Gary Taylor
Ilya Kemantov
Everett Clover
Mr. & Mrs. Thomas Ray
Mrs. D__lan P. Ford
Vollmar Schmidt
Samuel B. Bellen
Dorothy Grevitis
Paul Gregory
Frank Krystimik
Lylie Dy___k
Mrs. M. B____a
Mr. & Mrs. A. C. Johnson
Dr. Homer Wood
Mr. & Mrs. Fred (or Floyd) Davis
Mr. Ma__oth Longley
Leonard _.  _tchinson
Robert L. Stovall
Dennis H. Ofstein
John Craef
Hirsch L. C__way
Tommy Bargas
Roy Truly
W. W. Semingson
Cliff Roberts
Robert Taylor
G. E. Smith
Edal D. Ryder
Ruth M. Paine
Sterling Charles Wood
Pauline Virginia Bates
W. F. Tobias
Chester Allen Riggs, Jr.
Max E. Clark
Nrs. Frank Henry Ray
Mr. & Mrs. Igor Voshindn

 Mesers. Hubert & Griffin  (Continued)
Dep. Ch. C. L. Lumpkin
 Capt. F. M. Martin
Sgt. B. J. Maxey
Res. Off. L. W. Mayo
Lt. Berray _errel
Det. L. D. Niller
Det. L. D. Montgomery
Lt. Ron McCoy
Det. Boxer Lee M___
Det. T. D. McMillan
Res. Off. W. J. Newman
Lt. R. S. Pierce
Sgt. J. A. Pub__n
Lt. Jack Revill
Ptn. Willis B. Sleck
Lt. V. S. Smart
Sgt. D. F. Steele
Dep. Ch. W. W. Stevenson
Capt. C. E. Salbert
Det. J. C.  Watson
Lt. Woodrow Wiggins
Res. Off. G. S. Morley
Radio dispatchers on duty,
Dallas Police Department
Between 10 AM and 6 PM, November 24, 1963
Ptn. Thomas Gregory
Capt. Solomon
Charlotte Hawell
Ptn. Leonard E. Jez
George M. Kemp
Capt. Glen D. King
Ptn. Carroll G. Lewis
Dep. Ch.  R. H. Lindsy
Ptn. Duane J. McChurch
Lt. Robert McKinney
Ptn. Ronald C. Nelson
Det. James K. Romney
Ptn. Bobby Gene Patterson
Clerk, Johnnie F. Newton
Det. H. Baron Reynolds
