On November 25, 1963, Mr. C. J. PRICE, Administrator, Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas, Texas, advised that the Death Certificate and Statements of Medical Treatment relating to President JOHN F. KENNEDY had been taken by GEORGE G. BURKLEY, MD, White House, Washington, D.C., and Secrete Service Agents. Mr. PRICE stated, however, that a summary had been prepared by Dr. KEMP CLARK, Director, Service of Neurological Surgery at the request of GEORGE G. BURKLEY, MD, and was transmitted to Dr. BURKLEY by letter dated November 23, 1963.


        Mr. PRICE made available reproduced copies of the summary and letter furnished Dr. BERKLEY.


        The following are the contents of the summary prepared by Dr. KEMP CLARK, verbatim:


Summary


“The President arrived at the Emergency Room at 12:43 P.M., the 22nd of November, 1963. He was in the back seat of his limousine. Governor Connally of Texas was also in this car. The first physician to see the President was Dr. James Carrico, a Resident in General Surgery.


“Dr. Carrico noted the President to have slow, agonal respiratory efforts. He could hear a heartbeat but found no pulse or blood pressure to be present. Two external wounds, one in the lower third of the anterior neck, the other in the occipital region of the skull, were noted. Through the head wound, blood and brain were extruding. Dr. Carrico inserted a cuffed endotracheal tube. While doing so, he noted a ragged wound of the trachea immediately below the larynx.


“At this time, Dr. Malcolm Perry, Attending Surgeon, Dr. Charles Baxter, Attending Surgeon, and Dr. Ronald Jones, another Resident in General Surgery, arrived. Immediately thereafter, Dr. M.T. Jenkins, Director of the Department of Anesthesia and Doctors Giesecke and Hunt, two other Staff Anesthesiologists, arrived. The endotracheal tube had been connected to a


This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency, it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

“Bennett respirator to assist the President’s breathing. An anesthesia machine was substituted for this by Dr. Jenkins. Only 100% oxygen was administered.


“A cutdown was performed in the right ankle, and a polyethylene catheter inserted in the vein. An infusion of lactated Ringer’s solution was begun. Blood was drawn for type and crossmatch, but unmatched type ‘O’ RH negative blood was immediately obtained and begun. Hydrocortisone 300 mgs was added to the intravenous fluids.


        "Dr. Robert McClelland, Attending Surgeon, arrived to help in the President's care. Doctors Perry, Baxter, and McClelland began a tracheostomy, as considerable quantities of blood were present from the President's oral pharynx. At this time, Dr. Paul Peters, Attending Urological Surgeon, and Dr. Kemp Clark, Director of Neurological Surgery, arrived. Because of the lacerated trachea, anterior chest tubes were placed in both pleural spaces. These were connected to sealed underwater drainage.
"Neurological examination revealed the President's pupils to be widely dilated and fixed to light. His eyes were divergent, being deviated outward; a skew deviation from the horizontal was present. No deep tendon reflexes spontaneous movements were found.
"There was a large wound in the right occipitoparietal region, from which profuse bleeding was occurring. 1500 cc. of blood were estimated on the drapes and floor of the Emergency Operating Room. There was considerable loss of scalp and bone tissue. Both cerebral and cerebellar tissue were extruding from the wound.
"Further examination was not possible as cardiac arrest occurred at this point. Closed chest cardiac massage was began by Dr. Clark. A pulse palpable in both the carotid and femoral arteries was obtained. Dr. Perry relieved on the cardiac massage while a cardiotachioscope was connected. Dr. Fouad Bashour, Attending Physician arrived as this was being connected.

        “There was electrical silence of the President’s heart.


        “President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300 hours by Dr. Clark.

        As you know, this Commission was established on November 29, 1963, to investigate and report on all the circumstances relating to the assassination of President Kennedy and the killing of the alleged assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald. One of our staff attorneys, Arlen Specter, plans to be in Dallas on Friday, March 20, 1964. At some time during the following week he will contact you regarding our inquiry and discuss with you arrangements for taking your testimony regarding the events of last November 22 at Parkland Memorial Hospital in which you participated.


        For your information, I am enclosing copies of Executive Order No. 11130 creating this Commission, S. J. Res. 137, and the Rules of Procedure of this Commission for the questioning of witnesses by members of the Commission staff.


Sincerely,


J. Lee Rankin
Enclosures                                                                        General Counsel
        Mr. Griffin called to report the following.


        On Saturday Mr. Specter took the depositions of the following persons stationed at Parkland Hospital: Ruth Nelson, R.F. Jamison, Janette Standridge, Margaret Rincheliffe, Dr. Robert N. McClelland, and Mr. William Kemp Clark.


        Today the following depositions were taken by the designated members of the staff:
        Witness                                        Staff Member
Dr. Charles Gregory……………………………………………….. Mr. Specter
Dr. George Thomas Shires……………………………………… Mr. Specter
Ilya Kemantov………………………………………………………… Mr. Jenner
Mr. George Bouhe………………………………………………….. Mr. Liebeler
Chief Stephens……………………………………………………….. Mr. Hubert
Chief Batchelor………………………………………………………. Mr. Griffin


        Apart from the reports of these witnesses Mr. Griffin informed me that two additional reporters have been secured by the staff members in Dallas. He informed me that he had a lengthy visit with Secret Service Agent Sorrels, head of the Dallas office, and that Mr. Sorrels was very interested in assisting the Commissions in performing its responsibilities.

        As I mentioned to you during our meeting last Monday, members of the Commission staff are currently in Dallas thinking the depositions of various witnesses. I wish to confirm my invitation to you or your representative to participate during the taking of these depositions in the same manner in which you are currently taking part in the presentation of evidence before the Commission.


        So that you are fully informed regarding the name of the witnesses currently being deposed, I am attaching to this letter a list of witnesses whose deposition have been authorized. The first column sets forth the witnesses to be deposed this week by Mr. Specter, primarily doctors and other personnel of Parkland Hospital. The second column sets forth the names of witnesses to be handled by N__a. Hubert and Griffin of the Commission Staff, including officials of the of the Dallas Police Department and the Sherriff’s offices at Dallas, who will be interrogated regarding the handling of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. The third column lists the witnesses to be handled by N__a. Jenner and Liebeler and includes persons of the Dallas community familiar with certain of Oswald’s activities in the months preceding the assassination. These members of the staff are under instructions to take these depositions as expeditiously as can be arranged.


        I anticipate that the process of taking depositions in Dallas will last through approximately Friday, April 10th. Next week Mr. Hubert will remain in Dallas to interrogate witnesses.

associated with Jack Ruby and hi activities prior to the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1965. Depositions will also be taken next week and the following week by N___a. Ball and Belin of the Commission staff. These attorneys will be interrogating additional witnesses from the Dallas Police Department concerned with the investigation of the assassination and various other Dallas witnesses with the information to supply regarding Lee Harvey Oswald’s depositions of specific witnesses in this area, I shall empty you with a list of names.


        I hope that these arrangements meet with your approval.


Sincerely,


Signed


J. Lee Rankin
General Council
