The president arrived at the Emergency Room at 12:43 P.M., the 22nd of November, 1963. He was in the back seat of his limousine. Governor Connally of Texas was also in this car. The first physician to see the President was Dr. James Carrico, a Resident in the General Surgery.


Dr. Carrico noted the President to have slow, agonal respiratory efforts. He could hear a heartbeat but found no pulse of blood pressure to be present. Two external wounds, one in the lower third of the anterior neck, the other in the occipital region of the skull, were noted. Through the head wound, blood and brain were extruding. Dr. Carrico inserted a cuffed endotracheal tube. While doing so, he noted a ragged wound of the trachea immediately below the larynx.


At this time, Dr. Malcom Perry, Attending Surgeon, Dr. Charles Baxter, Attending Surgeon, Dr. Ronald Jones, another Resident in General Surgery, arrived. Immediately thereafter, Dr. M. T. Jenkins, Director of the Department of Anesthesia, and Doctors Giesecke and Hunt, two other Staff Anesthesiologists, arrived. The endotracheal tube had been connected to a Bennet respirator to assist the President's breathing. An Anesthesia machine was substituted for this by Dr. Jenkins. Only 100% oxygen was administered.


A cutdown was performed in the right ankle, and a polyethylene catheter inserted in the vein. An infusion of lactated Ringer's solution was begun. Blood was drawn for type and crossmatch, but unmatched type "O" RH negative blood was immediately obtained and begun. Hydrocortisone 300 mgms was added to the intravenous fluids.


Dr. Robert McClelland, attending surgeon, arrived to help in the President's care. Doctors Perry, Baxter, and McClelland began a tracheostomy, as considerable quantities of blood were present from the President's oral pharynx. At this time, Dr. Paul Peters, attending Urological surgeon, and Dr. Kemp Clark, Director of Neurological surgery, arrived. Because of the lacerated

trachea, anterior chest tubes were placed in both pleural spaces. These were connected to sealed underwater drainage.


Neurological examination revealed the President's pupils to be widely dilated and fixed to light. His eyes were divergent, being deviated outward; a skew deviation from the horizontal was present. No deep tendon reflexes or spontaneous movements were found.


There was a large wound in the right occipitoparietal region, from which profuse bleeding was occuring. 1500 cc. of blood were estimated on the drapes and floor of the Emergency Operating Room. There was considerable loss of scalp and bone tissue. Both cerebral and cerebellar tissue were extruding from the wound.


Further examination was not possible as cardiac arrest occurred at this point. Closed chest cardiac massage was begun by Dr. Clark. A pulse palpable in both the carotid and femoral arteries was obtained. Dr. Perry relieved on the cardiac massage while a cardotachioscope was connected. Dr. Fouad Bashour, attending Physician, arrived as this was being connected. There was electrical silence of the President's heart. President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300 hours by Dr. Clark.


[signed]
Kemp Clark, M.D.
Director
Service of Neurological Surgery

Upon receiving a stat alarm that this distinguished patient was being brought to the emergency room at Parkland Memorial Hospital, I dispatched Doctors A.G. Giesecke and Jackie H. Hunt with an anesthesia machine and resuscitative equipment to the major surgical emergency room area, and I ran down the stairs. On my arrival in the emergency operating room at approximately 1230 I found that Doctors Carrico and/or Delaney had begun resuscitative efforts by introducing an orotracheal tube, connecting it for controlled ventilation to a Bennet intermittent positive pressure breathing apparatus. Doctors Charles Baxter, Malcom Perry, and Robert McClelland arrived at the same time and began a tracheostomy and started the insertion of a right chest tube, since there was also obvious tracheal and chest damage. Doctors Paul Peters and Kemp Clark arrived simultaneously and immediately thereafter closed chest cardiac compression to assure circulation.


For better control of artificial ventilation, I exchanged the intermittent positive pressure breathing apparatus for an anesthesia machine and continued artificial ventilator. Doctors Gene Akin and A.H. Giesecke assisted with the respiratory problems incident to changing from the orotracheal tube to a tracheostomy tube, and Doctors Hunt and Giesecke connected a cardioscope to determine cardiac activity.


During the progress of these activities, the emergency room cart was elevated at the feet in order to provide a Trendelenburg position, a venous cutdown was performed on the right saphenous vein, and additional fluids were begun in a vein in the left forearm while blood was ordered from the blood bank. All of these activities were completed by approximately 1245, at which time external cardiac massage was still being carried out effectively by Doctor Clark as judged by a palpable peripheral pulse. Despite there measures there was no electrocardiographic evidence of cardiac activity.

These described resuscitative activities were indicated as of first importance, and after they were carried out attention was turned to all other evidences of injury. There was a great laceration on the right side of the head (temporal and occipital), causing a great defect in the skull plate so that there was herniation and laceration of great areas of the brain, even to the extent that the cerebellum had protruded from the wound. There were also fragmented sections of brain on the drapes of the emergency room cart. With the institution of adequate cardiac compression, there was a great flow or blood from the cranial cavity, indicating that there was much vascular damage as well as brain tissue damage.


It is my personal feeling that all methods of resuscitation were instituted expeditiously and efficiently. However, this cranial and intracranial damage was of such magnitude as to cause the irreversible damage. President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300.


Sincerely,

Upon receiving a stat alarm that this distinguished patient was being brought to the emergency room at Parkland Memorial Hospital, I dispatched Doctors A.G. Giesecke and Jackie H. Hunt with an anesthesia machine and resuscitative equipment to the major surgical emergency room area, and I ran down the stairs. On my arrival in the emergency operating room at approximately 1230 I found that Doctors Carrico and/or Delaney had begun resuscitative efforts by introducing an orotracheal tube, connecting it for controlled ventilation to a Bennet intermittent positive pressure breathing apparatus. Doctors Charles Baxter, Malcolm Perry, and Robert McClelland arrived at the same time and began a tracheostomy and started the insertion of a right chest tube, since there was also obvious tracheal and chest damage. Doctors Paul Peters and Kemp Clark arrived simultaneously and immediately thereafter closed chest cardiac compression to assure circulation.


For better control of artificial ventilation, I exchanged the intermittent positive pressure breathing apparatus for an anesthesia machine and continued artificial ventilator. Doctors Gene Akin and A.H. Giesecke assisted with the respiratory problems incident to changing from the orotracheal tube to a tracheostomy tube, and Doctors Hunt and Giesecke connected a cardioscope to determine cardiac activity.


During the progress of these activities, the emergency room cart was elevated at the feet in order to provide a Trendelenburg position, a venous cutdown was performed on the right saphenous vein, and additional fluids were begun in a vein in the left forearm while blood was ordered from the blood bank. All of these activities were completed by approximately 1245, at which time external cardiac massage was still being carried out effectively by Doctor Clark as judged by a palpable peripheral pulse. Despite there measures there was no electrocardiographic evidence of cardiac activity.

These described resuscitative activities were indicated as of first importance, and after they were carried out attention was turned to all other evidences of injury. There was a great laceration on the right side of the head (temporal and occipital), causing a great defect in the skull plate so that there was herniation and laceration of great areas of the brain, even to the extent that the cerebellum had protruded from the wound. There were also fragmented sections of brain on the drapes of the emergency room cart. With the institution of adequate cardiac compression, there was a great flow or blood from the cranial cavity, indicating that there was much vascular damage as well as brain tissue damage.


It is my personal feeling that all methods of resuscitation were instituted expeditiously and efficiently. However, this cranial and intracranial damage was of such magnitude as to cause the irreversible damage. President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300.


Sincerely,

On November 25th, 1963, Mr. C.J. Price, administrator, Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas, Texas, Advised that the Death Certificate and Statements of Medical Treatment relating to President JOHN F. KENNEDY had been taken by GEORGE G. BURKLEY, MC, White House, Washington D.C., and Secret Service Agents. Mr. PRICE stated, however, that a summary had been prepared by Dr. KEMP CLARK, director, service of Neurological Surgery at the request of GEORGE G. BURKLEY, MD, and was transmitted to Dr. BURKLEY by letter dated November 23, 1963.


Mr. PRICE made available reproduced copies of the summary and letter furnished by Dr. BURKLEY.


The following are the contents of the summary prepared by Dr. KEMP CLARK, verbatim:


Summary


“The President arrived at the emergency room at 12:43 P.M., the 22nd of November, 1963. He was in the back seat of his limousine. Governor Connally of Texas was also in this car. The first physician to see the President was Dr. James Carrico, a Resident in General Surgery.


“Dr. Carrico noted the President to have slow, agonal respiratory efforts. He could hear a heartbeat but found no pulse or blood pressure to be present. Two external wounds, one in the lower third of the anterior neck, the other in the occipital region of the skull, were noted. Through the head wound, blood and brain were extruding. Dr. Carrico inserted a cuffed endotracheal tube. While doing so, he noted a ragged wound of the trachea immediately below the larynx.


“At this time, Dr. Malcolm Perry, Attending Surgeon, Dr. Charles Baxter, Attending Surgeon, and Dr. Ronald Jones, another Resident in General Surgery, arrived. Immediately thereafter, Dr. M.T. Jenkins, director of the department of Anesthesia and Doctors Giesecke and Hunt, two other Staff Anesthesiologists, arrived. The Endotracheal tube had been connected to a


On 11-25-63 at Dallas, Texas File # DL 89-43 by Special Agent SA JAMES W. SWINFORD - md date dictated 11-25-63


This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.


“Bennet respirator to assist the President’s breathing. An anesthesia Machine was substituted for this by Dr. Jenkins. Only 100% oxygen was administered.


“A cutdown was performed in the right ankle, and a polyethylene catheter inserted in the vein. An infusion of lactated Ringer’s solution was begun. Blood was drawn for type and crossmatch, but unmatched type ‘O’ RH negative blood was immediately obtained and begun. Hydrocortisone 300 mgms was added to the intravenous fluids.


“Dr. Robert McClelland, Attending Surgeon, arrived to help in the President’s care. Doctors Perry, Baxter, and McClelland began a tracheostomy, as considerable quantities of blood were present from the President’s oral pharynx. At this time, Dr. Paul Peters, Attending Urological Surgeon, and Dr. Kemp Clark, Director of Neurological Surgery, arrived. Because of the lacerated trachea, anterior chest tubes were placed in both pleural spaces. There were connected to sealed under-water drainage.


“Neurological examination revealed the President’s pupils to be widely dilated and fixed to light. His eyes were divergent, being deviated outward; a skew deviation from the horizontal was present. No deep tendon reflexes or spontaneous movements were found.


“There was a large wound in the right occipitoparietal region, from which profuse bleeding was occurring. 1500 cc. of blood were estimated on the drapes and floor of the Emergency Operating Room. There was considerable loss of scalp and bone tissue. Both cerebral and cerebellar tissue were extruding from the wound.


“Further examination was not possible as cardiac arrest occurred at this point. Closed chest cardiac massage was begun by Dr. Clark. A pulse palpable in both the carotid and femoral arteries was obtained. Dr. Perry relieved on the cardiac massage while a cardotachioscope was connected. Dr. Fouad Bashour, attending Physician, arrived as this was being connected.


“There was electrical silence of the President's heart.


“President Kennedy was pronounced dead at 1300 hours by Dr. Clark.


Additional changes have been made in the schedule of testimony from that set forth in the memorandum dated March 6. The following witnesses are now scheduled to appear during the next to weeks:


Date Witness Comments


Tues., March 24 9 a.m. Howard L. Brennan, James Earl Jarman, Jr., Bonnie Ray Williams, Harold Norman, Roy S. Truly. Mr. Brennan is an important eyewitness who observed a man in the window of the 6th floor with a rifle prior to the assassination and saw the man fire one shot. The next three witnesses are three employees of the Depository who were on the fifth floor at the time of the shooting. Mr. Truly, superintendent of the building, can testify regarding his encounter with Oswald immediately after the assassination.


Wed., March 25 9.am. Patrolman Baker, Mrs. R.A. Reid, Deputy Sheriff Boone, Deputy Sheriff Luke Mooney, Patrolman M.N. McDonald Patrolman Baker and Mrs. Reid can testify regarding their encounters with Oswald immediately after the firing of the shots. Deputy Sheriffs Boone and Mooney are two of the police officers who took part in the investigative effort immediately after the assassination and are the officers who discovered the cartridge shells and the rifle on the 6th floor of the Depository.


Wed., March 25 (continued) Patrolman McDonald is the officer who apprehended Oswald in the theater after the killing of Tippit.


Thurs., March 26 9 a.m. W.W. Scoggins, Helen Markham, Jeanette Davis, Ted Callaway. Scoggins and Markham were two eyewitnesses who saw the killing of Tipput. Davis and Callaway will testify that a man they identified as Oswald left the scene of the murder with a pistol in his hands.


Mon., March 30 9 a.m. Dr. Charles J. Carrico, Dr. Malcolm R. Perry. Doctors Carrico and Perry are two of the Parkland Hospital doctors who examined and treated President Kennedy. Additional medical testimony may be presented on this day depending upon the outcome of depositions to be taken by the staff in Dallas next week.


Tues., March 31 and following days to the extent necessary. Experts from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, other law enforcement agencies, and/or independent scientific laboratories. It is anticipated that some expert testimony can be presented to the Commission beginning on on this date with respect to questions of ballistics, handwriting analysis, fingerprint identification, and clothing analysis.


As you know, this commision was established by President Johnson on November 29, 1963, to investigate and report upon the facts and circumstances relating to the assassination of our late President, John D. Kennedy, and the subsequent killing of the alleged assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald.


The Commission would like you to appear before it as a witness on Monday, March 30, 1964 at 9 o’clock in the morning. At that time the Commission would like to take your testimony regarding your participation in the examination and treatment of President Kennedy on November 22, 1963. If you have any documents relevant to this matter, in addition to those which have already been supplied to Federal agencies, we would appreciate your producing these documents at the time you appear before the Commission. Enclosed for your information are copies of Executive Order No. 11130 creating this Commision, Senate Resolution 137 and the Rules and Procedure of this Commission for the taking of testimony.


The Commission is authorized to pay your transportation and living expenses incurred as a result of this appearance before the Commission. If you desire assistance in making these arrangements, please feel free to contact Mr. Forrest V. Sorrels, Chief of the Dallas office of the Secret Service, who is located at Room 500, Heliance Life Building, at 505 Ervay Street, Dallas. His telephone number is Riverside 9-3461, extension 3461.


Please advise Mr. Sorrels as soon as convenient whether or not you will be able to appear before the Commission on the designated day. Thank you for your cooperation in the work of the Commission.


Sincerely,


J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel

Mr. Hubert called to report that as a result of testimony of other witnesses he will need authorization for six more people. This doesn’t mean that the original list is enlarged by six because they aren’t using nearly as many people as listed. The six additional persons are: Mr. E. Pierce, Alfred Riggs (Possibly Alfredo), John Severance, Bill Lee Foster, [Erl]? Kelly, and Harold R. Fugtua[?]. These people work in the Dallas Public Works Department and all are janitors with the exception of Pierce. Mr. Hubert is seeking information concerning possible routes from the upper story of the municipal building to the basement of the jail.


Last night depositions were taken from the following: Capt. C.E. Talbert, Sgt. J.A. Putnam, Lt. R.S. Pierce, Lt. Woodrow Wiggins, and Sgt. P.T. Dean.


Today the following depositions were taken by the designated members of the staff:


Witness Staff Member


Dr. Charles J. Carrico...Mr. Specter
Dr. Frank A Baschour…. “
Dr. Gene Akin…………....”
Dr. A.H. Gieseke, Jr……..”
Dr. Malcolm R. Perry…….”
Det. L. D. Miller……….Mesars. Hubert & Griffin
Det. T.D. McMillen…….”
Lt. V.S. Stuart…………”
Det. H.L. Lowery………”
Louis McKinzie………..”
Jim Turner…………….”
Capt. W.F. Frazier………”

Witness Staff Member
Lt. A.M. Eberherdt……. Mesers. Hubert & Griffin
Det. J. R. Leovells…….”
Ptu. W. J. Hearicon…….”
Leonard Hutchinson……...Mr. Janner
Virginia Bates…………….”
Gery Teylor………………”
Mrs. Dynitrult…………..”
Max Clark……………..Mr. Liebeler
Anna Rey…………”
Dial D. Ryder………”
Mrs. Arma Neller………”
Mr & Mrs. Thomas Ray…….”


Mr. Hubert had scheduled depositions from7:30 to 9:30 this evening of Res. Officer C. O. Arnett, Sgt. D.F. Steele, Det. D. R. Archer, Sgt. B. J. Maxey, and Red. Officer W.J. Wemmen and has a full schedule for tomorrow (thursday March 26).


Thank you for your letter of April 3, 1964, regarding depositions currently being taken by members of the Commission staff in Dallas.


I assume that by this time you have received my letter of March 31, 1964, listing additional witnesses to be interrogated in Dallas with respect to the investigation of the assassination by the Dallas police Department and other material concerning Oswald’s involvement in the assassination. These depositions are proceeding as scheduled and will probably be completed by Friday, April 10, 1964. Copies of these depositions as well as all others taken by the members of the Commission staff will be available for your inspection in the Commission’s office as soon as they are received from the reporter.


In the event you did not receive a copy, I am enclosing a schedule of the witnesses who appeared before the Commission during the past week. As you will note, these included not only expert witnesses from the Federal Bureau of Investigation but also witnesses not employed by the Federal Government who are experts in the fields of ballistics and fingerprint identification. We are planning also to have at least one witness from outside the Federal Government testify before the Commission on questions of handwriting analysis at some point in the near future. After you or your associates have reviewed the transcripts of this testimony, we would certainly be interested in your opinion as to whether any additional expert testimony on these subjects is desirable.


Sincerely,


J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel


Mon., March 30 9 am. Dr. Charles J. Carrico, Dr. Malcolm R. Perry. Doctors Carrico and Perry are two of the Parkland Hospital doctors who examined and treated President Kennedy. Additional medical testimony will be presented on this day depending upon the outcome of depositions to be taken by the staff in Dallas next week.
Tues, March 31 Robert A Frasier Cort[?] Cunningham. Mr. Frasier and Cunningham are from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and will testify regarding their examination of the weapons, bullets, and cartridge cases associated with the assassination and the murder of Officer Tippit.


Wed, April 1 Joseph D. Nicol, Ronald Simmons. Mr Nicol is Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations, Illinois Department of Public Safety, and will testify regarding his examination of the weapons and bullets. Mr. Simmons is from the Weapons System Division at Fort Meade, Maryland, and will testify regarding the accuracy of the rifle found on the sixth floor.


Thurs., April 2 Sebastian F. Latona, Lr. Joseph Mooney, and/or Det. Arthur Mandella. Mr. Latona will testify regarding the Federal Bureau of Investigation examination of fingerprints and palm prints discovered on items of evidence involved in this investigation. The other two witnesses are from the New York Police Department and will testify on the same subject.


Friday, April 3 Mr. Paul Stombaugh a second FBI expert. Mr. Stombaugh will testify regarding the Federal Bureau of investigation examination of the fibers found on the gun and the paper sack and the hairs found on the blanket which the rifle was reportedly wrapped. The second expert to be designated by the Bureau will testify regarding his examination of the paper sack found on the sixth floor of the depository.
