
        MR. HUBERT: This is the deposition of City Manager Elgin E. Crull. Mr. Crull, my name is Leon Hubert. I am a member of the Advisory Staff of the General Counsel of the President’s Commission.
        Under the provisions of Executive Order 11130 dated November 29, 1963 and the Joint Resolution of Congress No. 137, and the Rules of Procedure adopted by the President’s Commission in conformance with that Executive Order and the Joint Resolution, I have been authorized to take a sworn deposition from you.
        I state to you now that the general nature of the Commission’s inquiry is to ascertain, evaluate and report upon the facts relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy and the subsequent violent death of Lee Harvey Oswald.
        In particular as to you, Mr. Crull, the nature of the inquiry today is to determine what facts you know about the death of Oswald and any other pertinent facts you may know about the general inquiry.
Now I understand, sir, that you have appeared here today by virtue of a letter requesting you to do so, addressed by Mr. J. Lee Rankin, General Counsel of the Staff of the President’s Commission, is that correct?


Mr. CRULL: That’s correct.


MR. HUBERT: When did you receive that, sir?



MR. CRULL: I would have to guess. He didn’t stamp it. The letter is dated July the 8th.


MR. HUBERT: Sometime last week?


MR. CRULL: I received it about last Thursday.


MR. HUBERT: That would be July 9?


MR. CRULL: Yes.


MR. HUBERT: All right, sir, would you stand and raise your right hand, please?


        Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give in this matter will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you god?


MR. CRULL: I do.


MR. HUBERT: Would you state your full name?


MR. CRULL: My name is Elgin English Crull.


MR. HUBERT: Where do you reside, sir?


MR. CRULL: Dallas, Texas at 9424 Hobart.


MR. HUBERT: What is your office?


MR. CRULL:  City Manager, City of Dallas


MR. HUBERT: How long have you held that position?


MR. CRULL: For twelve years.


MR. HUBERT: How old a man are you, sir?


MR. CRULL: I am fifty-five. I shall be fifty-six on the 17th of this month.


MR. HUBERT: Are the a native of Texas?


MR. CRULL: No, I am a native of Louisville, Kentucky.


Mr. Hubert: Have you had previous experience in the field of City Management?


Elgin Crull: I have been in the City of Dallas for twenty-five years.


Mr. Hubert: In what capacity prior to becoming City Manager?


Elgin Crull: As an Assistant.


Mr. Hubert: Assistant City Manager?


Elgin Crull: Yes.


Mr. Hubert: Now Mr. Crull, we would like you to state, first of all, for the record, what are the duties and responsibilities and so forth of the City Manager of the City of Dallas, the position which you have held and been associated with for some twenty-five years.


Elgin Crull: The City Manager, under the Dallas Charter, is the chief administrator of the city government, being charged with the overall supervision of most of the departments of the government.
        There are few exceptions. Being charged with the financial control and the operation of the budget and the operation of the different departments.
        The City manager is charged with the responsibility of appointing and removing department heads and assistant department heads of the balance of the organization being under Civil Service.


He is the responsible official to the City Council, which is the policymaking body.
Mr. Hubert: Did you appoint Chief Jesse E. Curry to his position?


Mr. Crull: I did.


Mr. Hubert: Is that a political appointment, or just how was it made?


Mr. Crull: We don’t have any political appointments. We are a Council managing government. We have no political parties as such. The national parties take no activity in Dallas.


Mr. Hubert: If you make an appointment, does the Mayor or the City Counsel have anything to do with it by way of suggestion or rejection?


Mr. Crull: No, sir. The responsibility for the appointment and for the performance of the appointees is with the City Manager. The Council does set salaries for all appointees.


Mr. Hubert: It is possible, I suppose then, for the City Council to veto your appointment by not appropriating the money for the salary, is that possible?


Mr. Crull: It is possible. It hasn’t happened in thirty years.


Mr. Hubert: The selection of Chief Curry was your own selection?


Mr. Crull: That is correct.


Mr. Hubert: I take it from what you have said then, it was based upon merit?


Mr. Crull: In my opinion, yes, sir.


Mr. Hubert: Would you explain what is the ordinary effect of your relationship with your department heads, including and particularly the head of the Police Department insofar as the administration and policies of the Police Department are concerned?


Mr. Crull: The general administration is left to the Chief and his Staff. They are trained.


The administrative policies, the general personnel regulations, and things of that nature first come out of our office to the department, and then are followed by the different departments.
We do check through the budget office and through the budget office on any deviation in policies.
        Department heads request changes in policies, purchasing, financing personnel, and operating.
        In addition to that, the Chief, since a Police Department is a delicate operation with a particularly difficult public relations problem, would discuss things which might have a particular public application so far as public acceptance.


Mr. Hubert: Is it within your power to overrule
them?


Mr. Crull: In general, it does, but there are some details which are inaccurate.


Mr. Hubert: Now with respect to the details, I notice that you have marked on the very last line of the second paragraph on page one a little mark indicating that you wish to comment on that last line.
Would you state what you wish to say about it, please, sir?


Mr. Crull: I believe that says simply that I went to the Lake to a cabin. The only change is that there is no cabin. I have a boat on the Lake.


Mr. Hubert: Other than that?


Mr. Crull: Other than that, it is accurate.


Mr. Hubert: Now in the next paragraph, which is the third paragraph on page one, you have put a little mark next to the statement that you heard over the radio of Oswald having been shot.
Mr. Crull: I did not hear it over the radio. I was called by the operator of the Marino or one of his people, I do not remember which, who had heard it over the radio.


Mr. Hubert: Now on the next paragraph on page one, that is to say, paragraph four, you marked next to the fifth line and also next to the sixth, seventh and eighth lines of


that paragraph; first of all, with reference to the statement that you had selected the prior Chief of Police. That is to say, the Chief of Police prior to Chief Curry.
        Do you have any comments to make about that?

Mr. Crull: Yes. I didn’t select Chief Curry’s predecessor. He was selected by my predecessor or one of my predecessors.


        Mr. Hubert: The Chief of Police who was in office prior to Chief Curry was in that office when you became the City Manager?


Mr. Crull: That’s correct.


        Mr. Hubert: You kept him on?


Mr. Crull: That’s correct.


Mr. Hubert: Or perhaps it was thought that that was an appointment of him? But nevertheless, we have a clarification on that.
Now that sentence continues and reads as follows: That you never interfered with the operations of the Police Department, leaving it entirely in the Chief’s hands, as he did with other City Departments.
I think you indicated you wished to address yourself to that thought?


Mr. Crull: I think perhaps that gives the wrong impression, that departments and department heads operate entirely on their own without any supervision at all.




        Our department heads are experienced, and they do operate with a great deal of freedom, but not without control and not without consultation with the Central Office or Manager’s Office.


        Mr. Hubert: Now turning to the second page in the last paragraph, eight lines from the bottom of the page, there is a reference to an individual in the report who quotes you as saying he was a yellow sheet journalist.
        I think you wanted to comment on that?


Mr. Crull: I think that phrase should be stricken, because it is not my phrase. I don’t recall it, and it is not one I would use normally.
I think someone has attempted to portray what I thought of the individual, has injected his phrase.


Mr. Hubert: I guess to get the story complete, since you wish to delete the specific phrase, it might be a good idea for you to tell us what was your impression of him, in your own words.


Mr. Crull: The publisher of this local newspaper is careless with facts, and is inclined toward the sensational. And quite frankly, says he does it deliberately in order to sell newspapers.


Mr. Hubert: I notice that a little further down in this same paragraph there is a statement attributed to you by virtue of the fact that it in direct quotes says as




follows: “I can’t sell newspapers by telling the truth.” Which according to this report, the FBI says you stated with regard to that interview.


        Mr. Crull: That is accurate.


Mr. Hubert: Now I see no other marks indicating that you wish to comment upon any other part of Exhibit 1, so is it a fact then that other than the corrections that have been made, it is your opinion that Exhibit 1 represents a true and faithful record of the interview?


Mr. Crull: With the exceptions, I think it is accurate.


Mr. Hubert: Now while we were on the subject of this statement which had appeared in the Oak Cliff Tribune with reference to the pressure being brought upon Chief Curry in regard to his relationship with the press, I would like for you, if you wish, to comment upon what role you played with reference to the matter of control of the press and the whole situation involving the press?


Mr. Crull: I need some explanation. Over what period of time?


Mr. Hubert: I am talking about the period of time from November the 22nd after the President was shot until the 24th or 25th of November.


Mr. Crull: After the President was shot, for quite sometime I was at the control station at the site of the




luncheon. When I finally returned to the City Hall, I believe I reached there before the Chief did -- I went to my own office, and I can’t say how long later, went across to the Police Department, which is in an adjoining building.


Mr. Hubert: But there is a corridor?


Mr. Crull: Yes. At that time the press had almost taken over. There were the visiting press.
Our local press had been pushed off to one side, and the visitors who had made the trip here with the press, plus the television people, had flooded the third floor corridors.
The Chief’s office -- the television people had opened the switchboard on the corridor and their technicians had attached their equipment to the electrical system, and they were pretty well set up.
I do not know, but I assume that all this happened while all the top men in the Department were out on the job. There was no reason for top level people being in the Police Department Headquarters during the time of the Kennedy visit. They each had other assignments.


Mr. Hubert: When you went there and saw the condition you just described, what time was it, about?


Mr. Crull: I guess I would say it was about 3:30 in the afternoon.


Mr. Hubert: Did you see any of the top officers of The Police Department there on the third floor when you arrived?


Mr. Crull: I can’t remember specifically. Later that afternoon, I talked to Chief Curry when he did return.


Mr. Hubert: Where did that conversation take place?


Mr. Crull: In his office in the Police Department.


Mr. Hubert: How long after your return?


Mr. Crull: I guess this was thirty or forty minutes. About 4:00 o’clock in the afternoon.


Mr. Hubert: Had you left the building and gone back?


Mr. Crull: I had gone back to my office and come back again.
He had been to the airport with the President’s body. At that time Chief Curry discussed the condition of things with the press, and I agreed with him that we would continue our policy of trying to cooperate with the press.


Mr. Hubert: Did he have a formal meeting with the press, or how did that take place?


Mr. Crull: No, but they were -- the offices are small, and the corridor is not too big, and when you move that many television men and cameras and newspaper reporters into the corridor and into the offices, there was practically no space for anybody to work.


Mr. Hubert: Well, what I was thinking about was where this conference that you mentioned took place which




apparently you witnessed between Curry and members of the press?


Mr. Crull: No. I gave you the wrong impression. It was a conference between me and the Chief, and Chief Batchelor, his Assistant.


Mr. Hubert: What was the nature of that conference?


Mr. Crull: The general situation. This was the first time I had had a chance to talk to Chief Curry since he had left to go to the hospital after the President was killed, and we looked at the situation, and I agreed with the Chief that we would continue to try to cooperate with the press, that there would have to be some order brought into the situation, but that it was important that the Police Department not be put in a position in which later people could charge that this man had been beaten and had been kept under cover and not been allowed to see him.


Mr. Hubert: Was any consideration given to moving the press out completely?


Mr. Crull: No. This could have been an alternative, but we did not consider it.


Mr. Hubert: You mentioned that there was some discussion about controlling the situation?


Mr. Crull: We had to get them out of the offices and pushed back out into the corridor so people could work. They flooded into the Chief’s office and the surrounding


Mr. Crull: That is correct.


Mr. Hubert: I take it from what you have said then, it was based upon merit?


Mr. Crull: In my opinion, yes, sir.


Mr. Hubert: Would you explain what is the ordinary effect of your relationship with your department heads, including and particularly the head of the Police Department insofar as the administration and policies of the Police Department are concerned?


Mr. Crull: The general administration is left to the Chief and his Staff. They are trained.


The administrative policies, the general personnel regulations, and things of that nature first come out of our office to the department, and then are followed by the different departments.
We do check through the budget office and through the budget office on any deviation in policies.
        Department heads request changes in policies, purchasing, financing personnel, and operating.
        In addition to that, the Chief, since a Police Department is a delicate operation with a particularly difficult public relations problem, would discuss things which might have a particular public application so far as public acceptance.


Mr. Hubert: Is it within your power to overrule


any decision or action taken by the Police Department or the head thereof?


Mr. Crull: Not any action. It would be within my power to overrule on a policy matter and on administrative matters, but of course not those things which were covered by law. Do I make myself clear?
Mr. Hubert: Yes. But except for those duties and functions of the Police Department that are established by law, you would have the authority to direct the Chief to do or not to do any action that you thought?


Mr. Crull: That’s right, any department head.


Mr. Hubert: Now, Mr. Crull, I have previously handed you a document consisting of three papers, which is a report of an interview of you by FBI Agents Calvin Rice and John J. Flanagan, dated December 12, 1963, which for the purpose of identification I have marked on the first page in the righthand margin thereof as follows:
        “Dallas, Texas, July 14, 1964, Exhibit 1, deposition of Elgin Crull.” I have signed my name below that, and on the second and third page I have placed my initials in the lower righthand corner of each of those pages.
        I think you have had an opportunity to read that document, and I will now ask you if that document is correct as to the nature and effect stated in the course of that interview, and whether it reflects the facts as you remember
