
CHESTER ALLEN RIGGS, JR. , Vice President, Orbit Industries, Inc., 250 Carroll, home address 836 Edgefield, advised that he is the owner of a duplex house at 2703 Mercedes Street. MR. RIGGS said that he owns the duplexes at 2701 through 2715 Mercedes and acquired this property as an investment because the property is located in commercial zoning. He said the duplexes are of a low income type rent property.

Mr. RIGGS said further that he does not keep a record of persons presently residing in the duplexes and has no record of persons by name as having resided in these duplexes as the only record maintained by him is the rental income, which would be for 2tax purposes only.

Mr. RIGGS said that as a result of the assassination of President KENNEDY in Dallas on November 22, 1963, and the ensuing total television and radio coverage, that it came to his attention, and he recalls that LEE OSWALD did reside in his duplex located duplex located at 2703 Mercedes for a period of about three months during the summer and possibly early fall of 1962. MR. Riggs said that he has searched his records of rental income during that period of the times through his accountant and has found that there is no individual rental shown on each duplex and that the income was all grouped. Therefore, he would say there would be no way of pinpointing the exact dates that OSWALD and his wife resided at 2703 Mercedes.

Mr. RIGGS said further that he could furnish the following information from memory concerning OSWALD. He said he cannot now recall the conditions under which OSWALD and his wife moved from 2703 Mercedes; however, he recalls that there was no adverse condition which prompted OSWALD to move.

Mr. RIGGS said further that the only conversation he would have had with OSWALD would be when he would collect the rent, and he does recall that each time he collected the


rent that OSWALD would be reading. RIGGS said he recalls one time shortly after OSWALD moved into the duplex that he asked for curtains for the house. RIGGS said that he told OSWALD he would furnish curtains and at a later time went by the house and talked to OSWALD's wife, but upon talking to this person discovered that she could not speak English. RIGGS said he does not know what language she spoke.

RIGGS said further that he recalls during the period OSWALD was living at 2703 Mercedes, he recalls OSWALD telling him he worked for some welding company located nearby. RIGGS said further that his business office is located near the duplexes and that he recalls seeing OSWALD walk to work and knows that he did not have a car during the period of time he lived at this address.

RIGGS said further that he cannot recall any other conversation with OSWALD except that concerning the curtains.

RIGGS advised that after OSWALD and his wife left 2703 Mercedes that he did not know where this family moved. He said he does not know where the OSWALD family resided prior to living it 2703 Mercedes. RIGGS stated that he did not know any background concerning OSWALD.

Mr. RIGGS advised that the duplex owned by him is furnished. He said there is no other person living in his group of duplexes at the present time that would have lived in the duplexes at the time LEE OSWALD resided at 2703 Mercedes with the exception of the one person and that is Mrs. MARION BOYD, who resides at 2707 Mercedes, which is next door to 2703 Mercedes. RIGGS explained that the turnover of tenants in his group of duplexes is very great due to the type of housing.


CHESTER ALLEN RIGGS,  JR., Vice President, Orbit Industries, Inc. 250 Carroll, home address 836 Edgefield, advised that he in the owner of a duplex house at 2703 Mercedes Street. Mr. Riggs said that he owns the duplexes at 2701 through 2715 Mercedes and acquired this property is located in commercial zoning. He said the duplexes are of a low income type rent property.

Mr. RIGGS said further that he does not keep a record of persons presently residing in the duplexes and has no record of persons by name as having resided in these duplexes as the only record maintained by him is the rental income, which would be for 2tax purposes only.

Mr. RIGGS said that as a result of the assassination of President KENNEDY in Dallas on November 22, 1963, and the ensuing total television and radio coverage, that it came to his attention, and he recalls that LEE OSWALD did reside in his duplex located at 2703 Mercedes for a period of about three months during the summer and possibly early fall of 1962. MR. Riggs said that he has searched his records of rental income during that period of the times through his accountant and has found that there is no individual rental shown on each duplex and that the income was all grouped. Therefore, he would say there would be no way of pinpointing the exact dates that OSWALD and his wife resided at 2703 Mercedes.

Mr. RIGGS said further that he could furnish the following information from memory concerning OSWALD. He said he cannot now recall the conditions under which OSWALD and his wife moved from 2703 Mercedes; however, he recalls that there was no adverse condition which prompted OSWALD to move.

Mr. RIGGS said further that the only conversation he would have had with OSWALD would be when he would collect the rent, and he does recall that each time he collected the


rent that OSWALD would be reading. RIGGS said he recalls one time shortly after OSWALD moved into the duplex that he asked for curtains for the house. RIGGS said that he told OSWALD he would furnish curtains and at a later time went by the house and talked to OSWALD's wife, but upon talking to this person discovered that she could not speak English. RIGGS said he does not know what language she spoke.

 RIGGS said further that he recalls during the period OSWALD was living at 2703 Mercedes, he recalls OSWALD telling him he worked for some welding company located nearby. RIGGS said further that his business office is located near the duplexes and that he recalls seeing OSWALD walk to work and knows that he did not have a car during the period of time he lived at this address.

RIGGS said further that he cannot recall any other conversation with OSWALD except that concerning the curtains.

RIGGS advised that after OSWALD and his wife left 2703 Mercedes that he did not know where this family moved. He said he does not know where the OSWALD family resided prior to living it 2703 Mercedes. RIGGS stated that he did not know any background concerning OSWALD.

Mr. RIGGS advised that the duplex owned by him is furnished. He said there is no other person living in his group of duplexes at the present time that would have lived in the duplexes at the time LEE OSWALD resided at 2703 Mercedes with the exception of the one person and that is Mrs. MARION BOYD, who resides at 2707 Mercedes, which is next door to 2703 Mercedes. RIGGS explained that the turnover of tenants in his group of duplexes is very great due to the type of housing.


On November 29, 1963, this Commission was established and authorized to investigate and report on all the circumstances surrounding the assassination of President Kennedy and the killing of alleged assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald. One of our staff attorneys, Wesley J. Liebeler, plans to be in Dallas on Monday, March 23, 1964. He will contact you shortly thereafter to discuss arrangements for the taking of your testimony on all aspects of the assassination and of the background of the alleged assassin of which you may have knowledge.

For your information, I am enclosing copies of Executive Order No. 11130 creating this Commission, S. J.  Res. 173, and the Rules of Procedure of this Commission for the questioning of witnesses by members of the Commission staff.


On November 29, 1963, this Commission was established and authorized to investigate and report on all the circumstances surrounding the assassination of President Kennedy and the killing of the alleged assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald. One of our staff attorneys, Wesley J. Liebeler, plans to be in Dallas on Monday, March 23, 1964. He will contact you shortly thereafter to discuss arrangements for the taking of your testimony on all aspects of the assassination and of the background of the alleged assassin of which you may have knowledge.

For your information, I am enclosing copies of Executive Order No. 11130 creating this Commission, S. J. Res. 137, and the Rules of Procedure of this Commission for the questioning of witnesses by members of the Commission staff.


RESOLUTION GOVERNING QUESTIONING
OF WITNESSES BY MEMBERS OF THE
COMMISSION STAFF

Pursuant to Executive Order No. 11130, November 29, 1963,

Which authorizes this Commission “to prescribe its own procedures”

it is therefore

Resolved, that the following are hereby adopted as the rules of this Commission

for the questioning of witnesses by members of the Commission staff.


I.               Sworn Depositions

A.    Individual members of the staff are hereby authorized to administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive evidence in the form of sworn depositions on any matter under investigation by the Commission.

B.    Such sworn depositions may be taken only from witnesses designated in writing for questioning in this manner by the commission, or by the General Counsel of the Commission.

C.    A stenographic verbatim transcript shall be made of all sworn depositions. Copies of the witness’ testimony shall be available for the inspection by the witness or his counsel. When approved by the Commission, said copies may be purchased by the witness or his counsel at regularly prescribed rates from the official reporter.

D.    Process and papers of the Commission issued under paragraph (d) of Joint Resolution S. J. 137, 88th Cong., 1st Sess., shall be returnable no less than three days from the date on which such processor papers are issue, and shall state the time, place, and general subject matter of deposition. In lieu of such process and papers, the Commission may request the presence of witnesses and production of evidence for the purpose of sworn depositions by written notice mailed no less than three days from the date of the deposition.

E.    The period of notice specified in Paragraph D may be waived by a witness.




Records of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Collection: Key Persons Files

F.    A witness at a sworn deposition shall have the right to be accompanied by counsel of his own choosing, who shall have the right to advise the witness of his rights under the laws and Constitution of the United States, and the state wherein the deposition shall occur, and to make brief objections to questions. At the conclusion of the witness’ testimony, counsel shall have the right to clarify the testimony of the witness by questioning the witness.

G.   At the opening of any deposition a member of the Commission’s staff shall read into record a statement setting forth the nature of the Commission’s inquiry and the purpose for which the witness has been asked to testify or produce evidence.

H.    Any witness who refuses to answer a question shall state the grounds for so doing. At the conclusion of any deposition in which the witness refuses to answer a question the transcript shall be submitted to the General Counsel for review and consideration whether the witness should be called to testify before the Commission.

II.              Sworn Affidavits

A.    Members of the Commission staff are hereby authorized to obtain sworn affidavits from those witnesses who have been designated in writing by the Commission, a member of the Commission, or the General Counsel of the Commission as witnesses whose testimony will be obtained in this manner.

B.    A copy of the affidavit shall be provided the affiant or his counsel.




Records of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Collection: Key Persons Files


S.J. Res. 137

Eighty-eight Congress of the United States of America

AT THE FIRST SESSION

Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday, the ninth day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and sixty-three


Joint Resolution
Authorizing the Commission established to report upon the assassination of
        President John F. Kennedy to compel the attendance and testimony of
        witnesses and the production of evidence.

   Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled. That (a) for the purposes of this joint resolution, the term “Commission” means the Commission appointed by the President by Executive Order 11130, dated November 29, 1963.
   (b)   The Commission, or any member of the Commission when so authorized by the Commission, shall have power to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any evidence that relates to any matter under investigation by the Commission. The Commission, or any matter under investigation by the Commission or any agent or agency designated by the Commission for such purpose, may administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive evidence. Such attendance of witnesses and the production of such evidence may be required from any place within the united states at any designated place of hearing.
   (c)  In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to any person under subsection (b), any court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which the inquiry is carried on or within the jurisdiction of which said person guilty of contumacy or refusal to obey is found or resides or transacts business, upon application by the Commission shall have jurisdiction to issue to such person an order requiring such person to appear before the Commission, its member, agent. Or agency, there to produce evidence if so ordered, or in question; and any court as a contempt thereof.
   (d)  Process and papers of the Commission, its members, agent, or agency, may be served either upon the witness in person or by registered mail or by telegraph or by leaving a copy thereof at the residence or principal office or place of business of the person required to be served. The verified return by the individual so serving the same, setting forth the manner of such service, shall be proof of the same, and the return post office receipt or telegraph receipt therefor when registered and mailed or telegraphed as a foresaid shall be proof of service of the same. Witnesses summoned before the Commission, its members, agent, or agency, shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States, and witnesses whose depositions are taken and the persons taking the same shall severally be entitled to the same fees as are paid for like services in the courts of the United States.
   (e)  No person shall be excused from attending and testifying or from producing books, records, correspondence, documents, or other evidence in obedience to a subpoena, on the ground that the testimony or evidence required of him may tend to incriminate him or subject him to a penalty or forfeiture; but no individual shall be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture (except demotion or removal from office) for or on account of any transaction, matter, or thing concerning which he is compelled, after having claimed his privilege



Records of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Collection: Key Persons Files

S.J. Res. 137—2

against self-incrimination, to testify or produce evidence, except that such individual so testifying shall not be exempt from prosecution and punishment for perjury committed in so testifying.
   (f) All process of any court to which application may be made under this Act may be served in the judicial district wherein the person required to be served resides or may be found.



Speaker of the House of Representatives.



President pro tempore of the Senate.




Records of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Collection: Key Persons Files


IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                                           NOVEMBER 30, 1963

Office of the White House Press Secretary

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

THE WHITE HOUSE

EXECUTIVE ORDER

- - - -

APPOINTING A COMMISSION TO REPORT UPON THE
ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

Pursuant to the authority vested in me as the President of the United States, I hereby appoint a Commission to ascertain, evaluate and report upon the facts relating to the assassination of the late President John F. Kennedy and the subsequent violent death of the man charged with the assassination. The Commission shall consist of - -

The Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman;

Senator Richard B. Russell;

Senator John Sherman Cooper;

Congressman Hale Boggs;

Congressman Gerald R. Ford;

The Honorable Allen W. Dulles;

The Honorable John J. McCloy

The purpose of the Commission are to examine the evidence developed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and any additional evidence that may hereafter come to light or be uncovered by federal or state authorities; to make such further investigation as the Commission finds desirable; to evaluate all the facts and circumstances surrounding the man charged with the assassination, and to report to me its findings and conclusions.

The Commission is empowered to prescribe its own procedures and to employ such assistants as it deems necessary.

Necessary expenses of the Commission may be paid from the “Emergency Fund for the President”.

All Executive departments and agencies are directed to furnish the Commission with such facilities, services and cooperation as it may request from time to time.


LYNDON B. JOHNSON

In addition to my memorandum of March 18, 1964, you are hereby further authorized to take the testimony, under oath, of the following witnesses upon oral deposition:

                            Mr. Chester Allen Riggs, Jr.

                            Mr. Max E. Clark, Esq.

                            Mrs. Frank Henry Ray

                            Mr. and Mrs. Igor Voshinin

                            Mrs. Earlene Roberts




cc:           Files
                Mr. Liebeler
                Mr. Jenner
                Mr. Willens
                Mr. Rankin


As I mentioned to you during our meeting last Monday, members of the Commission staff are currently in Dallas taking the depositions of various witnesses. I wish to confirm my invitation to you or your representative to participate during the taking of these depositions in the case manner in which you are currently taking part in the presentation of evidence before the Commission.

                So that you are fully informed regarding the  of the witnesses currently being deposed, I am attaching to this letter a lint of witnesses whose depositions have been . The first column forth the witnesses to be deposed this week by Mr. Spector, primarily doctors and other personnel of Parkland Hospital. The second column sets forth the names of witnesses to be handled by . Robert and Griffin of the Commission staff, including officials of the Dallas Police Department and the Sherriff’s office at Dallas, who will be interrogated regarding the handling of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. The third column lists the witnesses to be  by . Jenner and Liebeler and includes persons of the  community familiar with the certain of Oswald’s activities in the months preceding the assassination. These members of the staff are under instructions to take these depositions as expeditiously as can be arranged.

I anticipate that he processes of taking depositions in Dallas will last through  Friday, April 10th. Next week Mr. Hubert will remain in Dallas to interrogate witnesses

associated with Jack Ruby and his activities prior to the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. Depositions will also be taken next week and the following week by .  and  of the Commission staff. These attorneys will be interrogating additional witnesses from the Dallas Police Department concerned with the investigation of the assassination and various other Dallas witnesses with information to supply regarding Lee Harvey Oswald’s involvement in the assassination. When I have authorized the depositions of specific witnesses in this area, I shall supply you with a list of the names.

I hope that these arrangements meet with your approval.
